rea talks us through it , beautifully , and owens drags us though it , admirably , and , in tandem with jordan's sure hand , theirs are contributions to make " the butcher boy " a film worth savoring . 
zero effect gets its title from the main character , daryl zero ( bill pullman ) , although we don't understand what it truly means until the very last line of dialogue in the film . 
zero is a private investigator , perhaps the best private investigator who ever lived ( at least he'd like to think so ) . 
however , he's a socially inept being , and eccentric in every possible way -- this fact certainly makes his talents as a private eye even more bewildering than they already are . 
zero's accomplice is steve arlo ( ben stiller ) , a " normal " guy who does the business side of the job -- he's the one who actually speaks to clients and explains zero's greatness as an investigator . 
the opening scene has steve explaining the many virtues of zero's talents to soon-to-be client gregory stark ( ryan o'neal ) . 
it turns out that stark has lost a key to a safe deposit box , and is now being blackmailed for something that he apparently knows nothing about . 
zero takes the case , and the plot thickens . 
his path leads to a young , pretty paramedic named gloria sullivan ( kim dickens ) . 
despite her luminous and seemingly-harmless presence , she turns out to be the one blackmailing stark . 
through his investigations , zero learns why , but not without developing feelings for gloria -- feelings that , because of his reclusive behavior , are new and confusing to him . 
i have no particular affinity towards the mystery genre of film . 
i can idly enjoy movies about private investigators , and , every once in a while , a film like chinatown comes a long that blows me away ( actually , no private eye film has ever reached chinatown's greatness ) . 
zero effect , which is jake kasdan's first effort as writer/director , is a film about a private investigator that succeeds in all attempts : it's an original , funny , and completely involving motion picture . 
with so many cliches available to this genre , i find it amazing that kasdan avoided all of them . 
but he didn't just successfully avoid flaws : he has created a great film here , one that had me interested and fascinated from the first shot to the final moment . 
take , for starters , the great cast of characters . 
pullman is terrific as zero , showing a comic flair that i really haven't seen from him since spaceballs . 
zero is the kind of guy who seems at ease switching personalities so frequently as he does here ; the fact that he's an almost exaggeratedly twisted , emotionally unstable man outside of his profession is not at all difficult to believe . 
pullman's performance is much more layered than it might seem at first glance , and the occasional voice-over as he's going through the motions of his job are insightful and often hilarious . 
ben stiller is also a very funny individual ; he's the kind of comedian who makes normal lines sound funny . 
 " i'll shoot you , " he says to stark at one point . 
 " i have a gun , and everything . " 
his character is also well-drawn , with an interesting subplot involving his girlfriend ( angela featherstone ) who is not happy with the extensive amounts of time he must spend away from her due to the unpredictability of his job . 
o'neal also gives his character a bit of depth ; and kim dickens , last seen ( and underused ) in mercury rising , gets a chance to show us her talent here , giving gloria the realism this kind of character really needs . 
i find zero effect to be an immensely funny and witty film . 
kasdan's humor is of the best kind -- soft spoken , and mostly dialogue-driven ( though there are some great visual jokes ) . 
it's the kind of humor that's funny even after you've seen it five or six times . 
there's one scene in which zero talks about how detached he is , an how that makes him such a great detective . 
what we see during this narration are various shots of him sitting on a bed , or standing motionlessly , with his hair destroyed and an utterly blank look painted on his unshaven face , his eyes pointing to something off camera , but obviously to nothing in particular . 
i can't convey to you how funny this is , but what makes it great film making is that it has a point -- scenes like this are frequent , and they provide solid characterization of zero . 
as a side note , i don't consider myself an average viewer when it comes to comedy ( not to sound elitist ) -- i find things funny that many do not , and vice versa . 
there was a clump of people near me in the theater laughing uproariously through this film , and the rest of the theater was relatively silent through most of it . 
i have a feeling the humor here won't appeal to everyone , but there's certainly enough story and character development to keep anyone's interest . 
jake kasdan , son of writer/director lawrence kasdan , is only 22 years old . 
i found this out after seeing the film , and i can't remember ever being so impressed with a film maker . 
his direction is stylish without being pretentious , and his writing is mature , full , and developed . 
zero effect is the kind of film that i'll buy for my collection -- smart , original films like this are rare as it is , but this one actually has a heart and a soul . 
at the end of the film , i was involved in the characters , and i was satisfied with the outcome . 
and , with kasdan's undeniable talent at such a young age , all i can do is hope to see a lot more from him in the future . 
the long kiss goodnight ( r ) meryl streep tried it and failed . 
even pamela anderson lee made an attempt but fell flat on her well-bared assets . 
however , geena davis could very well become the first bankable american female action star with the long kiss goodnight , a preposterous but incredibly fun action thriller directed by her husband , renny harlin . 
davis plays samantha caine , a mousy suburban school teacher and mother whose memories only go back eight years . 
with the help of ethically questionable private detective mitch hennessey ( samuel l . jackson ) , she slowly remembers--and reclaims--her past as charly baltimore , tough-as-nails cia operative . 
needless to say , with the reappearance of samantha/charly comes the appearance of an assortment of no-goodniks out to erase more than her memory . 
shane black netted a cool $4 mil for his script ; i'm not so sure if his prose is truly deserving of such a hefty price tag , but for what it's worth , it delivers the goods . 
like black's previous work , such as lethal weapon and the last boy scout , the script juggles some impressive action scenes with funny , quirky dialogue . 
the humor especially works well in this case , for the story is so preposterous that the laughs help to keep things from taking things too seriously . 
but there's no argument that the more unbelievable sequences are original and entertaining as hell : who can resist the sight of davis tossing her daughter from a hole in her house into the nearby treehouse or chasing after a car . . . 
while ice skating ? 
jackson and davis make a good team . 
jackson is funny as ever as ever ; in fact , his spirited line deliveries , especially when he first appears , are more than reminiscent of his work as jules in pulp fiction . 
as good as he is , the one who should benefit the most from this project is davis , who shows much promise as an action heroine . 
what makes her so effective and why she should succeed where streep and lee failed is that she doesn't take herself too seriously . 
she is obviously in on the joke , slyly taking jabs at herself and at the situation . 
this is not to say that she doesn't need work--sometimes she lays on the " toughness " a bit too thick and comes off too much as a caricature . 
but should the public embrace the film and , in turn , the notion of a kick-ass female , davis could have found her special niche . 
it seems as if davis and harlin's first collaboration , the middling pirate epic cutthroat island , was just a dress rehearsal ( albeit a very costly one ) for long kiss , in which the wife-husband team hit their action stride . 
anyone simply looking for a fun , escapist entertainment that requires little-to-no thinking will find this film to be a more-than-welcome kiss . 
screen story by kevin yagher and andrew kevin walker . 
screenplay by andrew kevin walker . 
inspired by the short story the legend of sleepy hollow by washington irving . 
directed by tim burton . 
starring johnny depp , christina ricci , and casper van dien . 
special appearances by christopher lee and christopher walken . 
synopsis : investigator ichabod crane journeys to 1799 sleepy hollow to investigate a series of murders involving decapitation . 
townspeople believe the spirit of a dead german mercenary is threatening them . 
cute blonde katrina and a listless orphan help crane solve the mystery . 
comments : tim burton has directed a number of entertaining and groundbreaking films over the years . 
batman , of course , is perhaps his best-known film and led to a string of less successful sequels . 
he's done biographical work ( on the director ed wood ) , children's movies ( nightmare before christmas ) , and a homage to alien invasion movies ( mars attacks ! ) . 
sleepy hollow , his newest feature which fans have been anticipating for a while , shares the similar dark and atmospheric style of his earlier work and counts among his better movies . 
sleepy hollow quite obviously draws its inspiration from the old period horror films of the 1950s and 1960s , especially hammer studios' reworkings of dracula and frankenstein , and american international's series of movies based on the works of edgar allan poe . 
christopher lee , in fact , star of many hammer productions over the years , appears at the beginning of sleepy hollow as a judge who sends ichabod crane out to investigate the murders . 
the movie also borrows from the universal monster movies of the 1930s . 
one of the climatic scenes involves a windmill and obviously takes its cue from frankenstein . 
i mention these allusions for a reason . 
seasoned horror film fans , including myself , will smile at their inclusion in this film . 
with the recent disappointments in theatrically released horror movies , especially the blair witch project ( the most overblown turkey of the decade ) , we needed a film like this . 
not only does it have a sense of history , but burton's skillful use of setting and mood make this an entertaining exercise in horror . 
the film's eerie landscapes and foggy towns , indeed , overshadow the actors and the plot as the most noteworthy aspect of the movie . 
johnny depp , a veteran tim burton actor who has appeared both in ed wood and edward scissorhands , plays ichabod crane , who has apparently changed occupations from irving's original story and is now an investigator . 
depp is adequate in his role . 
no more ; no less . 
equally adequate is christina ricci , who plays the love interest in the film . 
she's a good witch too . 
how cute . 
one of the few weak parts of sleepy hollow is the wooden and cliched dialogue between the main characters . 
the two actors , however , carry the movie well enough , but the supporting cast is what makes this movie shine . 
veteran actors such as jeffrey jones and michael gough ( who played the butler alfred in all four recent batman flicks ) are terrific as the aging townsfolk involved in the conspiracy which depp uncovers . 
while i do not wish to reveal crucial plot points , i can say that the storyline becomes quite confusing . 
you have to pay attention . 
andrew kevin walker wrote the screenplay . 
he's the one who also wrote 8 mm and seven . 
walker is quickly becoming one of the premiere suspense writers in hollywood , and sleepy hollow certainly doesn't hurt his growing reputation . 
as one might imagine from a gentleman like walker , sleepy hollow is quite graphic . 
there's a lot of blood and a lot of beheadings . 
this is definately not a flick to take the young kids to . 
a lady in front of us took her two young sons to see it and spent about 25 - 30 minutes covering the youngest's eyes with her hand . 
he was obviously upset by the movie's intense violence . 
if you're looking for a good scare , however , sleepy hollow is definately recommended . 
mpaa : not rated ( though i feel it would likely be pg , for martial-arts violence . ) 
with three movies already ( re ) released theatrically in america , and at least three more on their way , jackie chan is one of the newest " hot properties " in action adventure stardom , and it's just about time . 
for over twenty-five years , jackie's been starring in martial arts and action movies in hong kong , thrilling audiences with both an incredible grasp of acrobatics and martial arts and a wonderful sense of comedy . 
 " drunken master " has the distinction of being the first jackie chan movie to " make it big " --this is the movie that supposedly set jackie up for big stardom in hong kong . 
i'm not entirely sure why , exactly . 
in many ways , " drunken master " is similar to most of jackie's other early films , such as " fearless hyena " i and ii , " master with cracked fingers " , " half a loaf of kung fu " , " spiritual kung fu " , and others . 
in fact , looking at all these early films together , one gets the impression that they were stamped out , cookie-cutter style , at a rate of four to six per year , all using the same casts and telling very similar stories . 
to be honest , i think that early jackie chan movies are something of an acquired taste . 
they're quite different from action movies as we know them in america . 
these films tend to be set in the chinese countryside in an indeterminate period sometime in the distant past , with fairly slow plots that often meander far afield and sometimes seem to exist only for the intention of stringing comedy and fight scenes together . 
 " drunken master " , though its plot is tighter than some , is no exception . 
 ( as an aside , " drunken master " was the first jackie chan movie i ever saw , and i saw it the way it was meant to be seen . . . in 
a movie theater in seattle , as part of an asian film festival . 
at the time , i didn't really think it was anything special . . . but 
after having seen more films like it , it's kind of grown on me . ) 
 " drunken master " 's storyline is very similar to that of other early jackie chan movies , such as " fearless hyena " i and ii and " master with cracked fingers " --slacker martial arts student is taught the martial arts by a harsh-seeming master , and has a big fight with an evil bad guy in the end ( a formula that has been " adapted , " to put it kindly , by american films such as karate kid ) . 
more specifically , jackie chan plays the part of wong fei-hong , aka " naughty panther , " a fun-loving , practical-joking kung fu student who is too good at kung fu for his own good , but not _quite_ good enough . 
after embarrassing his instructor's assistant by beating him roundly , then beating up a bully in a marketplace , wong fei-hong tries to hit on a pretty girl , but discovers that she , and her mother , can hit back , better than he can . . . and 
is further chagrinned to discover that the two women are his cousin and aunt , respectively . 
his father , wong kei-ying , is unhappy about this , and is further annoyed when the father and brother of the bully show up to sue for damages . 
kei-ying soon institutes a harsh regimen of punishment , which fei-hong does not like at all . 
while escaping from this punishment , fei-hong meets up with a drunken old man , who proceeds to thrash him soundly , then take him on as a student and thrash him some more . 
this turns out to be su hua-chi , a legendary master of drunken-style kung fu . 
he assigns fei-hong a series of bizarre tasks , such as filling jugs with water while hanging upside down from a frame , cracking walnuts with his hands , and other such exercises , that seem like more pointless cruelty but are actually strengthening him up . 
then , when he's ready , he teaches him the seven styles of drunken kung fu . 
unfortunately , the lazy fei-hong only practices six of them . . . 
 " drunken master " features some wonderful martial arts sequences , with jackie winning some fights and losing others . 
it's been said before , but i'll say it again--these fights don't just _happen_ , they're as carefully choreographed as any ballet performance , and it shows . 
in his fights , jackie often makes use of objects found in his environment-- benches , jugs , cups , bowls , fruits and vegetables--often in new and surprising ways . 
the fight scenes , particularly those toward the end of the film , are unparallelled in most american films . 
whether jackie wins or loses , it's really something to see . . . and 
it's often as funny as anything , too . 
and funny is the other thing jackie chan is very , very good at . 
there's very little that's new in this movie--jackie winning fights , jackie getting beaten badly by a master , jackie going through punishment or training . . . these 
schticks have all been seen before , in any one of several dozen similar jackie movies from the seventies and early eighties . 
but they're still hilarious as ever . 
likewise , jackie has a _great_ supporting cast , many of whom were also in other early jackie films , and they're often the source of plenty of hilarity on their own . 
the really big thing about " drunken master " , though , that inspired several copycats ( including a couple starring jackie himself ) and a sequel fifteen years later , was the drunken-style kung fu . 
i'm not certain whether or not this is actually a genuine style of kung fu , but the principle behind it is to imitate the wobbly movements of a drunkard to lull the enemy into a false sense of security . . . and 
it apparently helps if you're drunk while you're doing it . 
genuine or not , i have to admit , there's just something incredibly fun about watching a fellow who looks utterly sloshed wading into a group of startled opponents and making mincemeat out of them before they even realize what's going on . 
come to think of it , perhaps this element is what accounts for this film's success over any of the other jackie films . . . it's 
not just martial arts , it's the kind of martial arts that makes you stop and go , " whoa . . . " 
on the negative side , the cinematography in this film is nothing special , the film stock is rather primitive , the plot is often rather slow , and the subtitles are sometimes extremely hard to read against the background . 
 " gone with the wind " , this isn't . 
still , if you like martial arts films , or like what you've seen so far of jackie chan and want to see more , give it a shot . 
it's much more " real " than chuck norris or jean-claude van damme . 
you might very well like it . 
another interesting thing about " drunken master " has to do with its video availability in the us . 
 " drunken master " is the only early jackie chan movie that i know of that you can find in its original , letterboxed , hong kong subtitled form , commercially available on vhs ( from magnum video , in a gold box , for about $10 ) . 
there are plenty of other early jackie films around , but these are typically either in dubbed , pan-and-scanned form or else import tapes priced for rental instead of purchase . 
thankfully , " drunken master " , at least , is available in the aspect ratio in which it was meant to be seen , at a very affordable price . 
if you like " drunken master " , take a look at the numerous other early jackie chan films that are out there ( even the dubbed ones aren't really _too_ bad . . . if 
nothing else , you can enjoy the martial arts choreography while making fun of the dialogue ) . 
i particularly recommend " spiritual kung fu " , " half a loaf of kung fu " , the " fearless hyena " movies , and " snake & crane arts of shaolin " . 
also , the mostly-unrelated-storywise sequel , " drunken master ii " , will hit theaters in american release sometime later this year ( though what its american-release title will be is still uncertain ) and comes _highly_ recommended by this reviewer . 
also , for a rather different interpretation of the character wong fei-hong ( who is in fact a popular figure from chinese folklore ) , i've been told to suggest the " once upon a time in china " series starring jet li ( though i haven't personally seen any of them yet ) . 
if you choose to watch " drunken master " , i really hope you enjoy it , and i hope it starts to open your eyes to the wonderful world of asian cinema that's out there . 
all in all , i give this film an . 
well , i know that stallone is 50 years old now , but in daylight he doesn't look it ! 
daylight is a great disaster movie . 
if you've seen cliffhanger , you'll know stallone's character already . 
a guy with a bad past , but is in the right place at the wrong time . 
a tunnel connecting new york and new jersey has both sides collapses when a group of robbers collide with a truck carrying * very * flammable toxic waste . 
a dozen or so people survive the collapses and the incinerating fireball ( and what a fire ball it was ! ) 
stallone , a former emergency medical service man , is chauffeuring a rich couple around , when they reach the outside of the tunnel , before the explosion . 
then , 30 minutes into the movie , boom ! 
>from here on , the plot takes a back seat , and we are treated to some of the best camera work and action staged . 
most all the action is plausible and will hold you at the edge of your seat . 
there are a few melodramatic parts here , but , they tend to work out well . 
there is no general antagonist in this film , but the action and suspense makes you forget all about that . 
daylight is a great film , i saw a non-matinee showing of it , and i thought it was worth every penny . 
the characterizations are mostly flat , one dimesional , but they have enough in them to get you to care for some of the characters . 
rob cohen ( dragonheart ) does a great job with this film . 
logical time travel movies are a near-impossibility . 
considering that the skeptic's best argument against the possibility of time travel is the idea of altered realities , writing a script that deals with this problem is an imposing task . 
occasionally , we get a film that does manage it . 
terry gilliam's " 12 monkeys " was one such film . 
but more frequently , we get films that don't much deal with it at all . 
there is one question to ask in this case : does the film have other virtues that override the existing logical inconsistencies ? 
the " terminator " films made up for them with exciting action , " back to the future " did it with an entertaining story , and the new film " frequency " pulls off the trick with a strong package of its own . 
is " frequency " filled with plot holes ? 
yes . 
does it matter ? 
not really . 
the film opens in october of 1969 . 
firefighter frank sullivan ( dennis quaid ) puts his life on the line every time he suits up for his job , then goes home to his loving wife julia ( elizabeth mitchell ) and son johnny ( daniel henson ) . 
the double-pronged story flashes forward to 1999 , where johnny ( now jim caviezel ) is all grown up and working as a police detective . 
a strange occurrence -- the appearance of aurora borealis over new york city -- allows father and son to communicate through the same ham radio frank used in '69 and that john has found in the present day . 
though both are initially skeptical of the idea , john eventually takes this opportunity to warn his father against his impending death in a warehouse fire , and he succeeds in saving frank from certain doom . 
now flooded with memories of a full life with his father alive , john is initially overjoyed , until he discovers that the changes to the timeline have been disastrous : a serial killer that would have died has instead lived to kill seven more women . 
frank and john now must work together to set things right , with john using the information he has gathered in the future to instruct frank on what to do in the past . 
the premise of " frequency " is unusual , and requires getting over one very important mental hurdle to fully accept : john and frank are the only ones conscious of how the timeline has been changed as a result of their actions . 
this isn't explained ; you just have to go with it . 
when frank doesn't die in a fire , john is the only one who remembers it differently , while everyone else remembers it the new way . 
the concept also runs into problems concerning just how synchronous the two realities -- 1969 and 1999 -- are to each other . 
sometimes frank's changing the past results in something happening right away in john's world , and sometimes john gets the changes ahead of time . 
now , the filmmakers might have perfectly good explanations for this , and i could probably come up with something fairly convoluted ( but nevertheless logical ) if i thought about it hard enough ( for example , the reason john gets advance information of the serial killer's murders was because the change had already happened in frank's world , and john is only witnessing the * projection * of that change ) , but explanations aren't really the point . 
when " frequency " gets cooking , it's a riveting little thriller , even if it is confusing . 
what matters to a film like this is if the plot makes sense in the moment , and " frequency " works as long as it keeps moving . 
the film manages to be engaging despite the logical confusion . 
director gregory hoblit and screenwriter toby emmerich structure " frequency " as good hollywood entertainment , establishing decent , likable characters , making us care for them , and setting up a goal to be reached and a conflict to be resolved . 
i liked many of the creative touches : the split screens , allowing us to see how the universe is being affected in both realities , and the greater framework of baseball to drive the action forward . 
it actually uses the 1969 mets-orioles world series ( the one that featured the amazin' mets ) to great effect -- frank uses john's advance knowledge of the series outcome to convince his friends to believe him . 
 ( admittedly , this device may only be of interest to a baseball fan like myself . ) 
i even liked the final scene , which features frank and john both fighting the same man simultaneously in different time periods . 
some may find this scene blindingly confusing , as the reality shifts start coming fast and furious , but it does make sense if you think about it ( and give the script a lot of leeway ) , and let's face it : it's a darn cool way to end the film . 
there are enough surprises and plot twists in " frequency " to keep you on your toes , and as a result the movie avoids growing stagnant . 
the other major thing to appreciate about " frequency " is the handling of the father-son relationship . 
quaid and caviezel carry off their parts easily ; it's a rock-solid job from both actors . 
the relationship is instantly credible because they find the human truth behind the high concept : how would one react to being able to communicate with a dead relative , or with a future descendant ? 
watching the exchanges between frank and john will give you a pretty good idea of how to answer that question . 
the credibility of the human relationship is absolutely crucial to the rest of the film ; if we don't believe in the characters , we don't care about the outcome of the thriller plot . 
here , we do care , because we like the lead actors . 
i also liked some of the supporting cast members . 
elizabeth mitchell gets stuck with two thankless roles , playing julia the doting wife * and * mother , but still performs admirably . 
andre braugher , late of the television show " homicide : life on the street , " gives a nice supporting turn as frank's best friend and future colleague of john . 
he has a lovely scene in a diner in which he tries to explain the situation to julia while frank's world series predictions come true before his very eyes . 
braugher strikes the perfect facial expression here , simultaneously dismayed and amused . 
perhaps the only thing i didn't like about " frequency " is the overly sentimental coda , during which the camera's focus goes a little too soft and the baseball theme gets carried overboard . 
but that's only because the film had already earned a poignancy without resorting to cheap tactics . 
i freely acknowledge that " frequency " may best work as a " guy " movie , since it focuses on the very male-oriented idea of father-son relationships ( echoes of " field of dreams " can be easily heard ) , but the underlying concept is universally applicable . 
who wouldn't want to speak with a long-dead parent ? 
or see how their children turn out ? 
 " tell me about your life , son " -- excuse me while i mist up . 
and don't call me a sissy . 
blade is the movie that shows that wesley snipes really can live up to his potential as one of hollywood's premier leading men . 
blade is based on the comic book character of the same name and has that comic book kind of feel to it . 
it is a very stylish movie and for the most part that style works very well . 
although , at a few points i thought i was watching a music video as opposed to a movie . 
the ideas behind blade are good , as is the basic plot of the story . 
but at times , things seem to get a bit muddled , and the writers appear to want to do too many things at once . 
that really doesn't take away from the story too much , but it does hurt it a little bit . 
blade ( snipes ) is half man , half vampire . 
his mother was bitten by a vampire when she was pregnant with him and as a result he has many of the classic traits of a vampire . 
including a thirst for human blood that must be kept under control by a special serum which quenches his blood lust . 
blade has spent his life hunting down and killing vampires as a sort of revenge for the fact that one of their kind killed his mother . 
but this isn't as easy as it seems , because the vampires in blade's world are more sophisticated than the ones that you find in most films . 
the government and other authorities know of the existence of vampires , but they let them feast of the population at large because they are taking bribes from the vampires . 
where do vampires get money ? 
well , in blade , they run multinational companies in order to finance their vampire organizations . 
i personally thought that this whole secret corporate world run by vampires to be a very clever idea , and a great addition to the movie . 
blade runs up against the evil deacon frost ( stephen dorff ) a maverick in the vampire community . 
he isn't content to live among humans , and is convinced that the vampire race is the superior one and he means to insure its superiority . 
he has managed to translate the ancient vampire scrolls that tell of the method of making him an all-powerful vampire -- rendering him virtually unstoppable . 
it's up to blade to see that this doesn't transpire . 
admittedly , blade is style over substance through and through . 
the story is a relatively forgettable one , but it is fun none the less . 
the acting in blade is just about what you would expect from a movie of this type . 
this isn't a film that is going to win accolades for its performances , and the actors know this . 
the movie is played for fun and nobody seems to think otherwise . 
it's a popcorn movie , and no one involved has any illusions otherwise . 
blade's production values are as slick as any that you will find in your typical summer blockbuster . 
the combat sequences between blade and his vampire targets are incredibly well done . 
although , the mtv-style cuts did get on my nerves after a while during long sequences . 
blade is a fun movie with an interesting take on the vampire genre . 
this is not the movie for those of you who like your vampires in tuxedos and living in coffins in the basement of some gothic castle . 
what blade excels at is bringing the classic lore of the vampire into the next century with a fresh outlook on life . 
very cool . 
the truman show ( paramount pictures ) running time : 1 hour 42 minutes starring jim carrey and ed harris directed by peter weir after a long wait , jim carrey's dramatic debut finally makes it to the big screen . 
in case you've been asleep for the last few months , the plot centres on truman burbank ( carrey ) who leads an seemingly idyllic life in the beautiful town of seahaven . 
his life seems so perfect , however , because it's controlled by christoff ( harris ) creator of the truman show , the program burbank is unwittingly the hero of . 
that's right , burbank's life is being broadcast live to the american public , and seahaven and all it's inhabitants are inclosed in a massive sound stage . 
the film takes the jerry springer format one step too far . . . 
with an idea so different , it would be easy for the director and screenwriter to dumb it down and appeal to the lowest common denominator . 
luckily , the film remains sensible enough to appeal to all ages , yet never seems to be a dumb carrey movie . 
talking of carrey , he's perfect in this movie , enjoying the best role in his career . 
his character is a re-inforced stanley ipkiss from the mask ( 1994 ) and is completely suited to carrey's persona . 
he occasionally falls into ace ventura mode , shrieking and being silly , but generally the audience is watching subdued carrey . 
he's not completely dramatic like the film promises , however . 
ed harris brings an extreme intensity to christoff , the megalomaniac creator of the show . 
quiet and well spoken , he burns an image into the viewer . 
unfortunately , he's barely in the film , and for the first hour dosen't appear at all ! 
also disappointing is natascha mcelhone's character sylvia . 
she plays the role well , but her character is sadly underwritten and is pushed to the sidelines just when the audience is used to her . 
the supporting cast is excellent , and the town of seahaven looks delightfully perfect , so perfect it's creepy . 
the philip glass soundtrack is also superb , and is used to great effect during the film . 
peter weir keeps the film going , clearly having fun . 
the film is far more upbeat than his previous films dead poets society and green card . 
although it is slightly slow to begin with , about half an hour into film the pace really picks up , and when christoff is introduced fully the film is on a roll . 
sadly , though , the film is practically over when the film is in full steam . 
also , concerning the ending , it is slightly too ambiguous , which was disappointing . 
the screenwriter , andrew niccol , who bought us gattaca ( 1997 ) delivers an entertaining script , and manages to keep the plot in trim . 
while christoff's plans to keep truman in do get increasingly silly , they never go over the line , which would have been easy for niccol to do . 
also , there's some funny gags involving product placement and the people who watch the show . 
overall , the truman show is excellent entertainment . 
certainly different from the usual crap hollywood produces , it should be viewed by everyone . 
it offers something to every member of the audience , and you would almost certainly not come out disappointed . 
overall rating= 
review by david wilcock ? 1998 
 " you know , for kids " - norville barnes 
no film in recent has left me with such conflicted feelings as neil jordan's harrowing , humorous , horrifying adaptation of patrick mccabe's novel about young lad francie brady's ( eamonn owens ) descent into madness in 1960s ireland . 
on one hand , it was difficult for me to become invested in francie's story because he is such an unsavory character , unjustifyably venting his rage at his nosy but otherwise harmless neighbor mrs . nugent ( fiona shaw ) . 
on another hand , i found it difficult to laugh at some of francie's darkly comic shenanigans because he obviously is such a sick , needy child , having been raised by a drunken father ( stephen rea ) and a suicidal mother ( aisling o'sullivan ) . 
on yet another hand , i also found it difficult to completely sympathize with francie during his more emotional scenes because some of his , for lack of a better word , " bad " deeds are so incredibly shocking in their brutality and the malicious glee in which he performs them . 
however , the butcher boy's power is undeniable , and the film as a whole is unforgettable--perhaps because it is so disturbing . 
what makes it so unsettling is the francie's overall wink-wink yet matter-of-fact attitude about everything , expressed in a cheeky voiceover narration delivered by the adult francie ( rea again ) . 
think heavenly creatures played largely for laughs , and you'll sort of understand . 
anchoring the whole film is the astonishing debut performance of owens ; love francie or hate him , you cannot take your eyes off of owens . 
the butcher boy truly is a twisted , unusual film that is bound to make just about anyone uncomfortable . 
in the lobby after the screening , i overheard one man raving about how great yet disturbing it was ; i also heard one particularly offended woman say with disgust , " that movie was so unfunny ! " 
 " i didn't know what to expect . 
it's like something you chase for so long , but then you don't know how to react when you get it . 
i still don't know how to react . " 
--michael jordan , on winning his first nba championship in 1991 . . . or , 
my thoughts after meeting him on november 21 , 1997 
just how inseparable is the team of sgt . 
martin riggs ( mel gibson ) and sgt . 
roger murtaugh ( danny glover ) ? 
let's just say that when one partner asks the other partner to strip to his boxer shorts and then further asks him to run out into the middle of the road , flapping his arms while feverishly cackling like a chicken just to create a distraction , his partner actually does it ! 
the familiar lethal weapon family is back , including rene russo , who is now the expectant mother of riggs' child and joe pesci as the soprana-like , foul-mouthed former accountant who has decided to become a private eye . 
new to the team is chris rock , also a fast-talking , up and coming detective . 
trouble seems to follow the two veteran detectives where ever they go , and in this film , that is no exception . 
even when they are just taking a leisurely boat ride , they somehow manage to collide with a freighter ship . 
we here some ominous music , which clues us that a confrontation is about to happen . 
gunfire ensues , and when it's all over , the detectives want to learn more about this freighter by questioning a chinatown crime lord . 
although they don't know what they're looking for , their inquisitiveness causes the bad guys to take some action . 
and there's plenty of action here for two movies . 
led by fighting sensation jet li , whose martial arts skill is nothing less than impressive , he does what he can to make sure that no one finds out what they are up to . 
li is ruthless in his approach , will kill anyone just to make a point , and develops enormous disdain for the two detectives . 
there are terrific car chases , explosions and gunshot galore . 
it's a summer action recipe followed to the letter , and the result is nothing less than pure , unadulterated summer fun . 
but even too many explosions can get boring . 
to counter that , we are treated to several amazingly choreographed fight sequences with jet li . 
luckily , he'd rather fight hand-to-hand instead of firing off guns . 
meanwhile , when the detectives aren't reloading their guns or running from fireballs , they're engaged in sophomoric banter and silly conversations that provide a nice diversion from the hail of bullets . 
everybody gets in on the shtick . 
russo screams during her delivery , the crime lord has a few funny bits when he's being interrogated while being given laughing gas , and pesci and rock are very funny as they go at it discussing the drawbacks of having cellular phones . 
gibson and glover are always in sync and the film moves at a brisk pace to get to the final and terrific mano a mano . 
score one for the old guard . 
since 1990 , the dramatic picture has undergone a certain change of style . 
now , instead of emphasizing feel-good stories replete with characters of noble virtues , the screenplays and direction point toward human struggle and sorrow . 
this realist tendancy can be inspiring at times , as 1993's schindler's list shows . 
most of today's mainstream drama , however , creates an overabundance of emoting that can turn off members of the audience . 
that's why pictures like october sky , which are a throwback to the good ol' dramas of yesteryear , are such a welcome relief in contemporary cinema . 
the movie is based on the true story of homer hickam ( jake gyllenhaal ) , a teenager in the 1950's company town of coalwood , west virginia . 
it's a well-known fact that the only boys to make a name for themselves are the ones that get out of the town on football scholarships ; the rest grow up to work in the coal mine . 
the mine , which is run by homer's father ( chris cooper ) , is not the place for homer , however . 
after watching the soviet satellite sputnik shoot across the october sky in 1957 , homer feels a connection with the outside world -- as he puts it , " anyone in the world could look up and see the same thing i did . " 
drafting two of his best friends and the brainiac outcast , homer begins to construct rockets . 
with the help of their history teacher , miss riley ( laura dern ) , and several mine workers , the four are soon bound for great things . 
october sky is a skillfully crafted film , and most of that credit must go to director joe johnston . 
johnston -- whose career in the film industry includes everything from directing well-known titles like jumanji and the rocketeer down to an uncredited role as a death star trooper in star wars -- certainly knows what he's doing here . 
he molds characters which are true to life and also fun to watch into a plot that is straightforward and robust . 
he does not push any barriers , but instead adopts a conservative style of filmmaking which enhances the film's charm . 
his finesse brings out elements which might otherwise be lost -- such as the relationships between homer and various mine workers , or the silent struggle between homer's mother and father . 
the cast is well chosen , although the true bright spots are the supporting roles . 
laura dern ( jurassic park ) lends a strong performance in the role of the history teacher , giving the boys the support and guidance they need . 
her role is instantly likeable . 
chris cooper ( the horse whisperer ) , as homer's father , is less likeable -- even downright despicable at times -- but his turn here gives gravity to the movie . 
he's definitely a driving force in homer's life , and his more humane moments give the piece a certain dynamic that is commendable . 
the script is generally cheerful , projecting the boys' endeavors in a lighthearted manner . 
there are moments when it becomes predictable -- such as the train tracks scene -- and there are moments when it sacrifices orginality for the need to come up with an emotional plot twist . 
it highlights the essence of youth , however , and for its exceptional job at this it can be forgiven other missteps . 
october sky should be a success with audiences . 
although it doesn't have the appeal of current teen flicks like varsity blues or she's all that , it certainly holds an undeniable quality that older crowds will lean towards . 
it's a welcome change to the dramatic genre , and one that everyone should see . 
a big surprise to me . 
the good trailer had hinted that they pulled the impossible off , but making a blues brothers movie without jake blues ( john belushi ) is such a dumb idea i really had no hope . 
they replaced him just fine . 
not with john goodman , he didn't do much of anything , but with the brilliant actor joe morton , who can really sing . 
the fourth blues brother is j evan bonifant , who's ten . 
this was another of my fears for the film , but he's a really good dancer , and plays a mean harmonica ( although he may have been dubbed ) . 
things that intellectually had bothered me before , like no mission from god , everyone being richer , it not being filmed in chicago -- gave me no problems at all . 
i'm quite pleased that there were less car pile-ups , because they meant less music , and john landis seems to have lost interest in the whole thing . 
there's a few early crashes , and then one huge pile-up , but after that it all stops . 
it's just the music . 
one of my problems with the first is that cab calloway's song is so good the actually blues brothers look dull after him , but there's no problems with this . 
the music is all as good as ever , tons of great musicians showing up -- with the exception of johnny lang , who can't sing , all the musicians do a great job . 
the only real problems i had was the special effects . 
these were superfluous and a waste of money . 
since the film isn't doing very well , they could mean we have no possibility of another sequel , which i want to see . 
the bluegrass version of riders in the sky is even better than rawhide . 
-- http : //www . geocities . com/hollywood/academy/8034/ 
remove no spam to reply . 
 " drive carefully but recklessly " , mama , child's toy " the only excercise i take is walking behind the coffins of friends who took exercise . " 
peter o'toole 
after having heard so many critics describe " return to me " as an old-fashioned hollywood romance , i kept asking myself going into this movie : what exactly is an old-fashioned hollywood romance ? 
what made " return to me " old-fashioned and old-hollywood ? 
was it the tunes from sinatra , etc . , legendary singers the senior citizens in the film constantly harp on ? 
was it the glamorous , sophisticated feel ? 
the charisma of the two leads ? 
even now i can't say that i have gotten any closer to the real answer , because i haven't see that many old-fashioned hollywood romances . 
i don't think any of the romances i've seen have been classified as such . 
which leaves me the option of vaguely agreeing with my fellow critics -- " return to me " was old-fashioned in the sense that it reminded me of the way the younger generation perceive venerated old hollywood magic , the way i perceive cinnamon spice and apple cider . 
it was traditional , magical . 
we knew it couldn't be too daring , or have any surprising plot twists that many cynical modern romances are apt to throw in . 
it was a romance told with such endearing simplicity , tenderness , and love ( from director bonnie hunt ) that it couldn't help but sparkle with charm despite its shortcomings . 
the film owes a lot of what it has to bonnie hunt's direction . 
from the very first bird's eye view of chicago , zooming in slowly toward the insignificant bob rueland ( david duchovny ) , accompanied by the " return to me " ballad ( by whom ? ) , we can tell we're in for something sweet . 
the scenes between the characters are endearing , truthful , with just a hint of fantasy . 
real people don't act that way ; real people aren't that nice . 
we know all this , and yet we want to believe in these folks' existence . 
the premise itself seems to have sprung out of a fairytale , but hunt's rooting the fairytale in common chicago folk simultaneously lends credit to the scenario and tinges everyday urban life with a hint of the ethereal . 
everything is ordinary--yet beautiful--in this film . 
>from the festive little family restaurant to grace ( minnie driver ) and bob's wardrobes . 
from the eloquent , not-in-a-hurry to progress storyline to the dainty watercolors that grace paints . 
from the animal stars to the way all the characters interact on screen -- the most beautiful part . 
 " return to me " has done an excellent job of assembling together a group of actors who blend in effortlessly as a family : the audience has no trouble at all believing that this rambunctious family actually does exist . 
we care for them , laugh with them , cry with them ; we're concerned that the little boy will pick up cursing from his father . 
whatever hunt did , she brought out the naturalism in all of the actors . 
disappointingly , david alan grier's charlie , however much i like him , was the most flatly-written . 
duchovny here does a laudable job of shaking off his fox mulder persona -- with the help of his fellow co-stars rarely do we see any hint of special agent fox mulder . 
instead we have a normal guy who when he falls in love shows more delight than fox mulder will show over the span of an entire season of " the x-files . " 
duchovny , who is excellent at understatement and self-deprecation as an actor showcases his considerable comedic talent on screen . 
minnie driver is engaging as always as the sweet , innocent grace with nothing but a good heart to offer . 
though an unlikely pair , duchovny and driver gradually warm up to each other as the movie progresses . 
while " return to me " functions remarkably as a laugh-out-loud comedy , a romantic scenic tour through chicago , and a tearjerker , the story is set up so the film ends up having nowhere to develop . 
the entire climax of the film hinges on when and how grace is going to tell bob that she actually was the recipient of his wife's heart . 
we already know that there's going to be a happy ending ; we feel like we spend the entire film , however enjoyably , in a straight line going towards that point . 
as a result bob and grace click almost too quickly--yes , i know she's supposed to have his ex-wife's heart and everything--it seems too effortless . 
the main subject is a love story , and the family scenes i love so much unfortunately are overused and distract from the turmoil of the two main characters ( whose story might not have that much meat after all ) . 
however , in the spirit of " return to me , " it won't do to be too picky about how " old " hollywood tells its stories . 
i loved knowing that this was a labor of love for bonnie hunt . 
it shows . 
the bottom line : " return to me " is nothing remarkable , and yet its sweetness , sincerity , and charm might touch your heart in ways that you hadn't imagined . 
wild things is a suspenseful thriller starring matt dillon , denise richards , and neve campbell that deals with all the issues ; sex , love , murder , and betrayal . 
the setting of the film is a town named blue bay . 
it consists of many swamps and slums and , on the other hand , rich estates owned by the town's different benefactors . 
the film opens just before the beginning of a senior seminar at the town's ritzy , expensive high school . 
it is here that we meet all of the core characters . 
there's guidance counselor sam lombardo , police officers ray duquette and gloria perez , dark mysterious senior suzie toller , and the popular head cheerleader kelly van ryan . 
we first see that all of the senior girls are smitten with the handsome guidance counselor , but none more than kelly . 
throughout the first portion of the film we see how far kelly will go to get sam until she accuses him of rape . 
shortly after , suzie , too , confesses that sam raped her as well . 
this pushes kelly's sex craving mother , sandra , to stop at nothing until sam is convicted . 
during the trial , kelly gives a teary confession of how sam raped her . 
however , it is later revealed by suzie that sam never raped either of the girls , it was all a vengeful plan against the guidance counselor . 
after sam is cleared , kelly's mother pays sam a very substantial amount of cash in order for him not to sue her . 
it is then revealed that sam , kelly , and suzie were all in on it together . 
it is here that the film starts to reveal just who is being honest with each other and who has their own hidden agenda . 
matt dillon stars as sam lombardo . 
sam is the kind of guy that every woman would like to sink their claws into , and sam obviously knows it and uses it to his own advantage . 
he isn't the obvious best of actors , but dillon does give a convincing performance . 
however , his talents seem to be rendered useless near the end of the film , making it look as though his character has lost all of his ethics and principles , although he never had many to start out with in the first place . 
neve campbell , who most people relate to scream and scream 2 , plays blue bay outcast suzie toller . 
suzie obviously has some serious issues to deal with which are obvious from her first scene in the film . 
campbell is very successful with this character , adding the slightest bit of charm to a seemingly repulsive character and making her fun to watch . 
playing kelly van ryan is denise richards . 
kelly is your typical , rich , sexy , head cheerleader who thinks she can have any man she choses , like her sexpot mother sandra . 
one of the most interesting things about this film is how it compares and contrasts the relationship between kelly and her mother . 
denise richards , still hot off the press from starship troopers , gives the most interesting performance in the entire film . 
in the beginning , kelly looks to be a paper thin character , but richards adds a little more spice and ultimately makes the character not only sexy , but dominating as well . 
kevin bacon gives one of his fair performances as ray duquette . 
this character looks to be one of the most boring , predictable in the film . 
however , it is a relationship revealed between him and suzie that adds depth to his story . 
still , the film doesn't seem to gain much from bacon's performance , only his name . 
in the supporting cast , theresa russell plays the much oversexed sandra van ryan , daphne rubin-vega gives an unappealing performance as cop gloria perez , and bill murray shines as sam's lawyer , ken bowden . 
hats off to murray for adding the perfect touch of comedy to the film . 
although wild things was displayed by the press as being an erotic thriller , the eroticism , which is portrayed with good taste , is kept to a minimum and focuses more on the plot and the relationships between the characters . 
this is truly a very good film worth seeing if your looking for a movie with a thick plot filled with it's share of twists . 
 * * * * * * minor plot spoilers in review * * * * * * * * * * * * no major spoilers are in review * * * * * * 
the previous two " alien " films have each had their own unique styles to them . 
the ridley scott's alien was very much a stylistic suspense film . 
james cameron's aliens was much more of an action film . 
and i liked each film separately for which it was . 
now alien 3 is out . 
and it is it's own film in the same right that alien and aliens were . 
unlike aliens , alien 3 requires that you have seen aliens . 
this is very important as the story picks up exactly were aliens left off . 
the survivors of the expedition to lv-426 are returning home after battling and beating the aliens . 
the climactic fight scene between ripley and the mother alien on the sulaco in aliens left behind one item , an egg . 
in the opening sequence we see the egg hatch , find its quarry , which leads to a fire aboard the sulaco when the facehugger is injured , an leads the sulaco to jettison the hypersleep tubes in an escape vessel . 
this vessel crash lands on fury 109 . 
everyone in the vessel is killed , except ripley . 
the facehugger is jettisoned with them and survives the crash . 
fury 109 is an ex-mining/maximum security prison . 
when closed down , some of the lifer prisoners decided to stay and live out the remaining years on the planet . 
all the prisoners are men who have not seen a woman in many years . 
ripley's arrival sparks a problem with the inmates . 
as for the new haircut that ripley and the prisoner's sport , there is an infestation of lice on the planet . 
being an ex-prison means that there is no way off the planet and no weapons . 
so the prisoners and ripley are off to face the alien on their own . 
i will not go into detail , but you can guess what happens here . 
the alien is loose and no one believes ripley's outstanding story . 
she finds comfort in the arms of the colony's doctor . 
yes , after 57 years ripley has sex . 
it is not gratuitous , in fact , we don't even see them kiss , but it is just as well . 
a sweaty sex scene would not have worked in the context of the film . 
there is a lot more gore in alien 3 . 
in fact i would guess to say that there is more in alien 3 than either of the earlier two . 
it also sports a new alien with 4 legs ! 
i won't say how , but it leads us to believe a few new things about the alien and its cycle , which i am sure will be explored in alien 4 . 
sigourney weaver is back as ripley and provides another excellent performance of this character . 
her scene during the autopsy of newt is enough to garnish her another academy nomination . 
the rest of the cast is also quite good . 
notably , charles dance as the doctor with whom ripley finds momentary escape from fury 109 . 
alien 3 has a very distinct look . 
this is due largely to its director , david fincher . 
mr . fincher , who until now has only directed music videos and commercials , has done an incredible job here . 
his direction is excellent and makes this film come to life in ways no " alien " film has before . 
for mr . fincher , i see a long prosperous career ahead of him . 
the music was also done by a newcomer to the film industry . 
elliot goldenthal has created a deeply moving score which lends itself to the claustrophobic setting that the " alien " series been set in . 
this time the score is not so much a rip off of star trek ii ( james horner's aliens ) . 
this score has a choral back up at times and even lends itself to the old style of ennio morricone scoring . 
this is a great score . 
the ending to alien 3 is quite good . 
there were times i thought that hollywood would come in and screw it up , but it played very nicely . 
i will not ruin the ending for you . 
go see the film . 
i consider it to be a much more involved film than any of the other films released so far this season . 
alien 3 is a worthy successor to aliens and alien . 
and when they make alien 4 , perhaps they will be able to find yet another new direction to take it in . 
are you tired of all the hot new releases being gone by the time you get to the video store ? 
wafflemovies . com is dedicated to finding those hidden gems that lie on the shelves . 
everyweek , wafflemovies . com 
reviews independent film and big studio pictures that deserve a second chance on video . 
here is a sample review : 
welcome to sarajevo 
in light of america's recent intervention in kosovo , welcome to sarajevo is a reminder of the horror america and the world ignored for years . 
set in sarajevo 1992 and based on actual events , this picture examines the human and societal casualties of war . 
the picture opens with a family escorting their young bride to her wedding . 
as they make their way down the street , a sniper shoots the mother of the bride . 
yet another reminder that daily life in war torn sarajevo can never escape the horror of war . 
in this scene , we meet joe flynn ( woody harrelson ) , an american reporter who stops reporting to help a priest carry the mortally wounded mother into a church . 
joe is cocky , but also good at heart as he continues to carry out kind deeds for people he doesn't even know . 
his fellow reporter is the british michael henderson ( stephen dillane ) . 
michael is quickly growing tired of the horror that surrounds him and the world's lack of interest . 
henderson is haunted by the memory of an altar boy who witnesses the mother's death as well as a young girl who he finds orphaned in a hospital after a mortar attack on citizens waiting in line for bread . 
he decides to take action when a united nations' delegation descends upon the area to declare yugoslavia the fourteenth most dangerous place on earth . 
henderson begins a series profiling an orphanage located on the front lines . 
he finds children of all ages living in fear and taking care of each other with the help of one adult . 
during his visits , he befriends a pre-teen girl , emira ( emira nuseric ) who serves as surrogate mother to baby roadrunner . 
he promises to get emira out of harm's way if he gets the chance . 
after the un delegation leaves the country without rescuing any of the children , henderson loses hope . 
however , his reporting has grabbed the attention of nina ( marisa tomei ) and her children's aid group that helps to find homes for the yugoslavian orphans . 
unfortunately , only babies are wanted for adoption , so henderson pledges to take emira to england . 
the group of children , nina and henderson depart the front lines on a dangerous escape for italy . 
can they complete this dangerous trek through the war torn countryside and avoid hostile troops gathering up muslims for concentration camps ? 
the movie was beautifully and sensitively made . 
director michael winterbottom and screenwriter frank cottrell boyce vividly express the societal destruction that has occurred . 
they show the destroyed lives , families that have been split up , and the desolation that everyone attempts to cope with . 
this is best exemplified by the group of yugoslavians henderson , his producer and flynn have befriended . 
the group of twenty-somethings reside in a bombed out bar without life's simplest pleasures and amenities . 
one of them is an accomplished musician who spends his days playing the piano and promising to play a concert when sarajevo is declared the most dangerous place on earth . 
like the rest of those deeply effected by the war , this small group tries to survive instead of trying to live . 
winterbottom brilliantly intersplices scenes with actual news footage to give the film the feel of a documentary and keeps the viewer aware that many of these horrors are being carried out thousands of miles away as you sit safely in your living room . 
the picture is also bolstered by beautiful cinematography that captures the devastation of this city that hosted the 1984 olympics . 
winterbottom and boyce also produce a realistic portrayal of the reporters covering the atrocities . 
this portrayal is much more flattering to reporters than earlier wafflemovies . com 
selection mad city . 
we watch them struggle to cover the horror , while trying to remain professionally detached . 
however , they are human and question the reason behind it all , why no one cares , and how they can get out . 
stephen dillane is wonderful as henderson . 
he portrays the character as an everyman caught in the middle of extraordinary events . 
dillane avoids making the character overly heroic and preachy . 
henderson realizes that he cannot save the world , but he can help a few . 
it is a wonderful opportunity for dillane after he had to suffer through the denis leary-sandra bullock disaster two if by sea . 
woody harrelson continues to prove that he is one of the finest , most versatile actors of his generation . 
harrelson plays the cocky celebrity reporter with a heart of gold by allowing the character's caring nature and vulnerability shine through . 
harrelson is equally adept at taking on roles as zany leading men ( cheers , white men can't jump ) as well as excellent supporting roles such as this one . 
this ability will serve him well and give him a long , successful career . 
america's involvement in this struggle comes seven years after the events of the movie take place . 
for those who do not have a full understanding of the history of the conflict , the entire movie , most importantly the opening scenes , provide a history lesson . 
war is a foreign concept to most of us in america . 
battles are fought thousands of miles away among people we have no attachment to . 
televised images of the gulf war are all the experience most of us have with war . 
this picture brings it right into your living room and makes you think outside of our own small world , something we don't do enough of in 90's america . 
many people dislike french films for their lack of closure . 
while possibly shallow , i've often had a desire for a sense of epiphany , or at least a resolution , in the films which i view . 
there is no revelation in un coeur en hiver in the traditional ; however , the film is incredibly successful in its passionate dramatization of a passion-denying protagonist , stephane ( daniel auteuil ) . 
stephane ( daniel auteuil ) is a master violin maker . 
he is passionless about all that which surrounds him except his craft and the music which his craft is responsible for producing . 
even the relationship between he and his boss , maxime ( andre dussollier ) is a controlled , and almost manipulated association , highlighted by the fact that stephane permits maxime to win close squash matches . 
in the beginning of the movie , stephane is a closed , solitary individual and the audience is carefully left to wonder about the depth of emotion behind this enigmatic man . 
camille kessler ( emmanuelle beart ) is a master violinist and the new love of maximes . 
maxime is so much in love with camille that he plans to and does leave his wife . 
like stephane , camille is outwardly very controlled and reserved , sacrificing all thought and emotion to her violin and the music which emerges . 
when stephane and camille meet , there is a recognition of a bonding by both individuals . 
however , whereas camille submits to the wild interplay of emotions which she now feels for stephane , stephane only admits that camille is attracted to him . 
stephane ignores his feelings for camille , which the audience cannot help but to see is present . 
as the movie progresses , the two characters become more and more polarized in their views and emotions for one another . 
these two people , with very similar approaches to life initially , react to their new circumstance very differently . 
stephane becomes even more rational and controlled , while camille becomes more tempestuous , until she almost borders on suffering a nervous breakdown due to the inability to consummate their relationship . 
however , their approach to each other is perhaps not surprising considering their vocation . 
the audience is led to believe that stephane may have been a genius as a violinist as well , due to his relationship with a master violin teacher . 
however , apparently , he could not be a violinist due to his intolerance for flaws in his playing . 
consequently , stephane becomes a precision craftsmen with the instrument and no longer plays . 
in contrast , camille had almost given the violin , years earlier . 
however , with the aid of her manager , she has progressed to being almost one of the world's finest , successfully submerging herself to her playing . 
during the course of the movie , we see both characters evolve as they struggle to meet the challenge of their new emotions . 
stephane attempts to remain unchanged . 
however , we do see subtle hints of his transformation . 
one of the most obvious is when he defeats maxime in squash . 
the development of all of the characters , many of which is not included in this synopsis , is incredible . 
american movies , with rare exceptions , have not and i would daresay cannot approach foreign films in character development . 
in its essence , this movie is about the development and growth of the characters , camille and stephane . 
the portrayal of all the other characters in the movie , including a death , is to further the development of camille's and stepahne's characters . 
i am not sure why berardinelli says , " at times it becomes difficult to determine whether stephane should be pitied or vilified , and it is to auteuil's credit that he manages to maintain this uncertainty . " 
this movie is not about judging stephane's actions as being right or wrong , but about viewing their growth and accepting the characters as who they are . 
i find the ending appropriate ; unfortunately , i found the last ten minutes which led up to the final scene to be very unfulfilling . 
this portion of the film is where the " sense of closure " could have been successfully accomplished . 
unfortunately , there is a hurried and almost a soap opera-type surge of emotions from all of the characters . 
while ravel may not be quite as accomplished as schubert or mozart , ravel has his day in this film . 
the synergism of the tension of ravel's music and tension on the screen is the best i have ever seen . 
the directing in this movie is wonderful . 
the actors and actresses are excellent , each playing their part with great sincerity and warmth . 
emmanuelle beart's personality is beautiful . 
and needless to say , i must say that emmanuelle beart , herself , is beautiful . 
besides the near ending , the only other criticism of the movie which i have is that the movie is almost too cerebral . 
i almost left with the sense little happened because almost all the changes which occur in the movie happen in deep in their psyches and little in their personalities or the situations which they end as part of . 
the one question which i am left with is while they have accepted their lot , has their attitude towards love changed ? 
i have several possibilities which i believe the movie hints at , but i am unsure of which the director is espousing . 
in summary , this movie is solely about the character growth of two characters who almost develop a relationship . 
in the process , we see their attitude towards life and other people . 
in itself , i do not believe un coeur is a complicated movie . 
where it does become complicated is when we juxtapose the scenes of the movie into the greater walk of life where we , as americans , have preconceived american notions of relationship , love , and people . 
i do wonder how the movie translates when viewed within its native french culture . 
however , i , bringing my american preconceptions , enjoyed the film . 
i would welcome any comments about this movie from any who have seen it . 
the keen wisdom of an elderly bank robber , the naive ambitions of a sexy hospital nurse , and a partnership that blossoms between the two are the fine components that make up a modest , little caper adventure entitled `where the money is . ' 
the elderly bank robber is henry ( paul newman ) , a famous criminal that was only recently caught . 
he has pulled off dozens of successful heists and has probably stashed away a small fortune . 
always the shrewd thinker , he begins working on a plan to get out of jail . 
this involves years of studying buddhism and self-hypnosis . 
when he is prepared to execute his plan , he uses what he has learned to fake a stroke . 
now a seemingly twitching vegetable , he is temporarily transferred to a state-run home . 
carol ( linda fiorentino ) is the nurse that cares for him . 
she's a very bright person with a good heart . 
yet , her life is a miserable waste of time . 
the most exciting thing to do in town is to fix cars . 
her days at the hospital facility are spent leading wheelchair calisthenics . 
worse , she's in a dead-end relationship with high-school sweetheart wayne ( dylan mcdermott ) . 
they became a couple because they were king and queen of the prom . 
to her , this made sense long ago . 
but now , it's a different story . 
wayne seems equally bored with his life , but is content enough to stay put . 
wayne's greatest ambition is to become a night shift supervising foreman . 
carol feels as lifeless as many of the other hospital patients , but she's never been anywhere else and doesn't see many other opportunities in life . 
however , when henry falls under her care , her outlook begins to change . 
the medical reports may state that he suffered a massive stroke . 
carol , however , begins to grow suspicious that henry may just be faking it after all . 
maybe she can get through to him , and maybe she can learn something about the money that he has stashed away . 
the opening 30 minutes are filled with hilarious attempts of carol trying to bring henry ? back to life . ' 
and what are some of carol's resuscitation techniques ? 
perhaps an erotic lapdance might stir his senses . 
if that fails , maybe she'll try a little shock therapy by pushing him off a 20-foot high pier into the cold lake below . 
when he finally comes out of his state of self-trance , the movie's direction changes , though it remains equally if not more entertaining . 
carol sees that henry is filled with charisma and self-assuredness . 
she is invigorated by his commanding presence and refreshed by his vibrancy . 
this , of course , puts wayne in an odd situation . 
henry and carol's bond grows stronger when they enter into an agreement to rob an armored car . 
henry needs this heist because he is unable to retrieve his original stash . 
meanwhile , this is carol's ticket to a better life . 
wayne is uncomfortable with the situation , but helps out nonetheless . 
however , his lack of commitment threatens their success . 
the heist sequence is suspenseful , well paced , and casts the uneasy feeling that something will horribly go wrong . 
`where the money is' does more to spotlight newman and fiorentino than it does to showcase a story about a nifty heist . 
newman is the real joy of the film , adroitly showing that at age 75 , he's still really hot stuff . 
he possesses a sly smile , displays a dominating attitude , and a projects a demeanor that is undeniably attractive . 
fiorentino is also a fun presence . 
you root for her despite her sense of amorality . 
sure , she wants to commit robbery and has little compunction about pushing a wheelchair-stricken man into a lake , but we can see that to escape her dead-end world , she needs to do something drastic . 
with two charismatic characters such as these , it's hard to ignore that `where the money is' is where the fun is . 
robert benton has assembled a stellar , mature cast for his latest feature , twilight , a film noir mystery set amid the fading stars of hollywood . 
paul newman stars as retired detective harry ross . 
harry has spent the last couple of years doing odd jobs for jack and catherine ames ( gene hackman and susan sarandon ) , a pair of married actors who have fallen from the limelight . 
when jack sends him on a routine delivery job , however , the old instincts kick in . 
soon , harry is wading through a mystery where friendships and lives are on the line , and he no longer knows who to trust . 
there are plenty of familiar faces throughout twilight , in addition to newman , hackman and sarandon . 
james garner plays raymond hope , a former cop and one of harry's best friends . 
stockard channing plays verna , harry's former partner , and possibly a former love interest . 
reese witherspoon is mel , the distrustful daughter of the ames' , and liev schrieber is her scuzzy boyfriend . 
giancarlo esposito appears as harry's bumbling detective protigi , and john spencer is a suspicious police captain . 
with a cast like that , it's almost worth watching twilight just to stargaze . 
luckily , there's more to the film than some sort of actor's recognition ceremony . 
twilight has a solid film noir-ish plot . 
it may not have as many twists and turns as some of the classics , but it has much more than a lot of what passes for film these days . 
the major cast members all deliver strong performances , as can be expected of their caliber . 
however , none of them have that little extra oomph which would make them memorable . 
the supporting cast is enjoyable , if a little underdrawn . 
stockard channing's character , in particular , is a cipher . 
there's more to her character than the film takes the time to describe . 
it's a minor , but irritating , flaw . 
with a solid cast , and a good plot , there's a lot to recommend about twilight . 
it's biggest flaw is actually its short running time . 
at a slim 94 minutes , there's a lot of stuff that's packed into an awfully small package . 
still , the chance to see newman , sarandon and hackman working together is worth a cramp or two . 
warning : anyone offended by blatant , leering machismo had better avoid this film . 
or lots of blood & guts , men against men and mano-et-mano stuff . 
in other words , it's a walter hill film ! 
with a john milius script ! 
i always picture these guys getting together and producing a movie between arm-wrestling matches . 
these films always contain male characters i have a very hard time identifying with , probably due to the likelihood that any meeting between them and me would result in my arm being ripped off and then my subsequent death by beating with said limb . 
and we got tough guys galore , here ; drug-running banditos by the dozens , all dirty and sweaty and pretty ill-tempered , overall ; a secret task force of army commandos who are in the area to cover-up ( supposedly ) any connection between the government and the drug runners ; and lots of shit-kicking texas dirt farmers who'd as soon shoot you between the eyes as look at you . 
in particular , we got nick nolte as one hard-ass texas ranger , powers boothe as the drug kingpin , michael ironsides as the leader of the secret army , and rip torn as the local sheriff . 
torn is the sympathetic figure of the group ; he smiles before shooting anyone . 
as to women . . . 
well , i've never seen jane fonda or meryl streep in a walter hill film , and at this rate , i doubt i ever will . 
women exist here to look good , comfort the man , and get argued over . 
gosh ! 
just like the old days . . . 
frankly , this is a pretty good movie , if you can accept the premise and can take the macho stuff . 
the cinematography is excellent , the cast of characters is broad and has texture , the script is quite good , and the film lets you keep up with what's happening yourself , without spelling it out to you . 
i appreciate a film that makes me have to think to keep up . 
finally , there's lots of sam peckinpah slow-motion shoot-ups . 
accepting his oscar as producer of this year's best picture winner , saul zaentz remarked that his cup runneth over . 
one could almost say the same about his much-prized film . 
rarely is the screen so overflowing with potent imagery , symbolism , ideas and metaphors , complex and literate storytelling , all possessed of an intelligence that invites -- even demands -- constant scrutiny , an acuity of perception and observation that must somehow yield the truth . 
in short , the antithesis of all things hollywood . 
yet this surfeit of signals is made to serve a rather pale and thinly realized love story whose emotional impact is as dry as a desert wind . 
ralph fiennes is the title character , an amnesiac burn victim whose gradual return to memory , and particularly the memory of love , is the ostensible focus of the film . 
but despite the use of numerous flashbacks to help put the pieces of this personal puzzle together , we never learn enough about the man to feel much empathy for him . 
his emotional life before the story begins is an essential clue that remains withheld . 
the same can easily be said for every other character in the film , of which there are too many . 
juliette binoche's nurse comes as close as this film gets to an emotional heart . 
at least we learn early on that she is scarred by the deaths of those close to her , and so we understand why she is eager to escape the company of her comrades in order to seek refuge in the convalescence of a mysterious , disfigured , dying stranger . 
even this information is imparted so quickly and in such cursory fashion , however , that it verges on the comical . 
with so many characters enjoying so little screen time , the film's 160 minutes can be taxing . 
yet there is something so captivating about the sensibility behind the camera that i couldn't help but feel that greatness was in the air . 
hints of it were everywhere -- in a man who hates ownership but wants desperately to possess his lover ; in ancient cave paintings of swimmers copied casually by a modern-day swimmer in the sahara ; in the way the shifting sands of time obliterate everything more completely than a world war . 
there is enough latent meaning to supply college film students with paper topics for years . 
but ultimately the emotional truths writer-director anthony minghella was grasping for were never revealed . 
in the end , i was left with the impression that i had witnessed quite an oxymoron : a haunting bore . 
bore is perhaps too strong a word . 
but after drinking in the rich production values , the cup remains only slightly over half-full . 
a bleak look at how the boston underworld operates , a film which was based on the best-seller by george v . , higgins . 
it is seen through the weary eyes of a 51-year-old , small-time hood , eddie " fingers " coyle ( mitchum ) . 
he got the nickname when a mob boss in his underworld element shut the draw on his hand as a punishment . 
his current dilemma is that he got caught running illegal booze by truck and faces a 3-5 year stretch in new hampshire , something he feels will be a life sentence for him since he doesn't think he could survive prison at his age . 
he is also concerned that his wife and three kids will have to go on welfare . 
he could have cut a deal and gotten off , if he turned his boss over to the d . a . , but he figured he would never live if he did that . 
he is currently gun-running for a gang of very successful bank robbers led by scalise ( rocco ) . 
the masked bank robbers operate by always first going to the bank manager's house and holding his family hostage and then they go to the bank and force the manager to open the vault for them or else his family gets it . 
on one of the heists , they kill a bank officer who pushes the alarm . 
coyle's best friend is dillon ( boyle ) , a hit man for the mob , working as a bartender . 
he is a permanent stoolie for the treasury agents , as an aggressive young agent named foley ( jordan ) , who likes to be called uncle , gives dillon breathing room to operate some of his low-level crime activities and to work the bar even though he has a prison record , as long as he keeps getting valuable info from him on things happening with the gangs . 
with the sentencing date closing in on him , the already convicted coyle is out on bail and looking for an angle to cut his jail time . 
he contacts agent foley and gives him a few inconsequential tips and then decides to do something that goes against his grain . 
thinking he made an iron-clad deal with foley to get his sentenced squashed in new hampshire , he gives him the place where a sale of machine guns is going down , knowing full-well the young hustler ( keats ) selling the guns is a lot like he was as a youth and when arrested will be facing a life sentence . 
but foley tells him after he arrests the gun-dealer , that new hampshire wants more before they take away his jail sentence , they want him to be a full-time informer . 
warning : spoiler follows in next paragraph . 
the bank robbers are setup and caught in the act and the mob boss is convinced coyle did it and gives dillon the contract to take care of his friend . 
the contemptuous dillon befriends coyle and treats him to a steak dinner and takes him to a bruin hockey game while getting him boozed up . 
coyle takes a look at the young bruin star bobby orr from his upper deck seat and says , " to be young like that and have his future , he's the greatest hockey player in the world . " 
dillon then takes the drunken coyle for a long drive and executes him mob-style , having a kid who works for him dump the body in some bad section of boston . 
this is a great atmospheric film due to the realistic noir mood it sets , of the hopeless situation the low-level criminals are in , and how they are forced to live with fear and the uncertainty of what horrible thing will happen next . 
the city streets are ugly , the gangsters are shown to be capable of any action to defend their own interests , whether it is betrayal or murder . 
there is a fatalistic feel about their lives , something robert mitchum wears as easily as others put on a hat . 
mitchum gives this film all the intensity and purpose it needs , as it overcomes a thin plot . 
it makes you see the characters for what they are without any false sympathy for them . 
mitchum is a loser ; and , that he lived so long , is a tribute to his skills as a survivor . 
but in the end , he even loses the respect he had among his underworld friends as a standup guy , as he wrestled with his code of honor and lost even that battle . 
 " footloose " has only one goal in mind : to reel in an audience with cheesy sentiment and feel-good antics . 
and i hate to admit it ; i fell for it . 
the movie is about a teenager ( bacon ) who moves to a small town from the big city , and discovers that dancing has been banned by the local reverend ( lithgow ) . 
he ends up falling for the preacher's daughter ( singer ) and showing the whole town what the magic of dance can do . 
as mentioned at the beginning of this review , " footloose " is an extremely hokey and predictable teen drama . 
there are virtually no surprises , and the writing is second-rate . 
so why did i enjoy it so much ? 
for one thing , the cast is great . 
kevin bacon oozes charisma in an early role . 
we're rooting for him right from the start , and , unlike most films of this genre , bacon doesn't play him as the " rebel without a clue " sort . 
yes , he does rebel , but he's also polite when he needs to be . 
and he never broods . 
the rest of the cast is equally impressive . 
john lithgow , seen here playing a normal guy for a change , is playing a man who would normally be a flat out villian . 
but lithgow plays him as a concerned father who is trying to do what he feels is best for his daughter . 
by the end of the film , we feel a genuine sense of love and understanding between him and the lori singer character . 
another nice touch is the music . 
we see the parents of the kids complaining that the music they listen to is filled with " sexual innuendos " , but that's not true at all . 
the title track , performed by kenny loggins , is upbeat and fun . 
during the final sequence , i was overcome with the urge to get off the couch and start dancing . 
of course , i soon realized that would be a little pathetic . 
anyway , " footloose " is a charming little surprise . 
don't let the premise prevent you from watching it . 
it sucked me in , and it'll do the same to you . 
as i walked out of crouching tiger , hidden dragon i thought to myself that i had had just seen a great film . 
with the passage of a few hours i tempered my enthusiasm and started pondering the question of whether a masterpiece must implicitly be a " great " piece of work and viceversa . 
attempting to make a distinction may be a matter of splitting hairs . 
i avoided a commitment by appealing to etymology . 
as the word implies , a masterpiece is any work which embodies the skills of a master . 
as such it should suffice to say that it is a product of exceptional quality . 
crouching tiger , hidden dragon fits comfortably in that category . 
crouching tiger , hidden dragon immerses the viewer in an idealized world of oriental folklore , with the requisite blend of legend , fantasy , magic and mythology . 
it is reminiscent of a wagnerian epic with characters which might as well be half-gods - greater than life , purer than life , stronger than life , physically invincible and able to accomplish superhuman feats , but with a human soul that makes them ultimately vulnerable . 
all the classic elements of the oriental mystique are thrown into the mix , including the art of contemplation and the concept of martial dexterity as the physical equivalent of spiritual advancement . 
the classic struggle between good and evil is the inevitable backdrop , with advanced masters of each and a golden pupil , which must choose between the two . 
it is the gifted pupil who , under the influence of the evil master steals the holy grail in the form of a magic sword which is the focus of the conflict at the heart of the legend . 
the elements of romance at two different levels of enlightenment ( a pair of masters and a pair of youngsters ) are poignantly represented . 
the paradox of oriental restraint existing side by side with all consuming passion in the same breast is projected effectively . 
the fight scenes are stunning balletic tours-de-force , not to be taken literally but clearly to be enjoyed as superb cinematic art , as are the prodigious leaps and flights to , from and between rooftops , the martial combat at the top of swaying bamboo branches and the combatants skipping like pebbles along the surface of a lake . 
there need be no question of suspended disbelief when one is in the presence of poetry . 
as in a wagnerian opera there is a substantial story line , which takes place at an ordinary human level , yet the entire project is to be accepted as a work of art rooted in fantasy . 
do not assume , however , that the art is limp-wristed . 
for those who are put off by the " art " label this film can be confidently recommended as engrossing entertainment at the levels of adventure , action and romance . 
there are no weak performances in this movie . 
michelle yeoh imbues her character with depth , humanity and wisdom . 
chow yon fat projects dignity and purity of heart . 
zhang ziyi is a budding superstar . 
she is radiantly beautiful and totally persuasive in a multifaceted role . 
cheng pei pei as the evil master and chang cheng as the bandit prince acquit themselves admirably . 
kudos to screenwriters james schamus , wang hui ling and tsai kuo jing , choreographer yuen wo-ping , photography director peter pau and music director tan dun , each of which contribute quality components to this extraordinary film . 
ang lee as the director , co-producer and mastermind of the project gets the lion share of the credit . 
this is destined to be one of those films that everybody likes , including those who hate martial arts movies . 
don't miss it . 
 " crazy/beautiful " suffers from the damned-if-you-do , damned-if-you-don't syndrome . 
after a spate of flighty , cookie-cutter teen films , the romantic drama addresses alcoholism and parental loss along with its love story . 
but rather than applaud the production , early reviews have dismissed it as an overblown " afterschool special . " 
even worse , in the wake of federal trade commission hearings that blasted the industry for marketing violent and sexual movies to young people , the studio got a case of the heebie-jeebies and forced director john stockwell to re-shoot scenes and cut footage to " tone things down . " 
needless to say , the filmmaker was frustrated . 
 " we were trying to make a cautionary tale , " he told newsweek , " and we couldn't show the behavior we were trying to caution people away from . " 
regardless , the film works , thanks to exceptional performances from its lead players and a script determined to transcend stereotypes . 
 " crazy/beautiful " is quality fare , good enough that i half-expected the summer movie crap police to walk into the press screening and confiscate the print for " failure to incorporate explosions and poop jokes . " 
set in pacific palisades , calif . , the story follows the burgeoning relationship between two teens . 
every morning and evening , carlos nunez ( jay hernandez ) takes a two-hour bus ride in order to attend pacific high school . 
an honor student and star athlete , carlos is responsible , modest and focused as he works on securing a place in the naval academy . 
all is well until he meets nicole oakley ( kirsten dunst ) , the daughter of a rich congressman ( bruce davison ) . 
nicole is a drunk apparently hell-bent on self-destruction . 
carlos is smart enough to recognize the danger in getting involved with her , but he is only human and she has the greatest smile . 
plus , as her father notes , she has a real knack for drawing others into her downward spiral . 
as with " save the last dance , " " crazy/beautiful " ( god , how i hate lower-case titles ) takes situations that look stale on paper and makes them seem fresh . 
while noting the racial and social differences between the kids , the screenplay dances around most of the clich ? s ( there are still several mtv moments , though ) . 
the filmmakers make a point to give characters that crucial extra bit of shading that turns them into individuals instead of stereotypes and the actors take it from there . 
cute-as-a-button dunst forces the viewer to share the pain beneath nicole's behavior . 
she is credible enough that when dad urges carlos to get away from her before she drags him down , i hoped the boy would listen . 
as carlos , hernandez is a revelation . 
hunky without looking like the product of a hollywood design team , the young man can really act ; we will see a lot of this guy in the future . 
aside from its title , the biggest problem with " crazy/beautiful " is its ending , which wraps everything up too fast and too tidy . 
after carefully presenting credible characters and situations , the conclusion feels rushed and lazy . 
still , this is the kind of film that deserves accolades from critics instead of cheap shots . 
 " afterschool special " my ass ? " crazy/beautiful " is the real deal . 
everyone knows someone like giles de'ath : stuffy , arrogant , set in his ways , and at war with anything that could in any way be associated with " progress . " 
giles is a writer , but the product of his typewriter is the kind of scholarly stuff that is immediately put onto library stacks where it can gather dust until some graduate student needs another reference for his or her thesis . 
his house looks like an immaculate museum ? with no television , microwave , word processor , or other technological gadgets , only the electric lights betray that he's living in the twentieth century , not the nineteenth . 
this is the kind of role that could easily be turned into a flat stereotype , but john hurt , in what is certainly his best performance in a decade and possibly the most impressive of his long and distinguished career , turns " erstwhile fogy " giles into a three-dimensional human being . 
despite his tunnel vision , it's impossible not to like the man , especially after his entire being is transformed by that singular affliction to which no one is immune : love . 
and , as giles discovers during the course of this amusing , warm-hearted motion picture , it's possible to find the object of one's affection in the most unusual places . 
giles , who is a widower and a recluse , does not frequent the cinema , but when he learns that an e . m . forster film is playing at the local theater , he screws up his courage and decides to go . 
what he doesn't realize is that the movie house is showing two films : the forster adaptation and a teen exploitation flick called hotpants college ii . 
a nonplused giles ends up sitting in a darkened room watching buff male and female bodies in various states of undress . 
just as giles is about to leave , however , he notices ronnie bostock ( jason priestley ) , and , suddenly , it's love at first sight . 
giles is enraptured , and the moment hotpants college ii is over , he beings to scour stores for bostock memorabilia , including teen magazines and video tapes . 
 ( in order to watch those tapes , giles must buy a vcr , but he initially doesn't realize that he needs a tv to use the vcr . ) 
eventually , not satisfied with being the world's foremost authority on bostock , giles boards a plane and travels to long island , where his idol's home is located . 
bostock is away when giles arrives , but the wily englishman manages to befriend ronnie's supermodel girlfriend , audrey ( fiona loewi ) . 
eventually , the actor arrives home and , impressed with giles' demeanor and intelligence , he begins to rely on the older man's advice . 
but , while giles' affection runs deep , ronnie's feelings are less constant . 
love and death on long island is a comedy , and a very funny one at that . 
in fact , for its first half , the film is nearly-perfect . 
it suffers a fall-off once giles reaches new york , and the ending , with its none-too-subtle homosexual overtones , is a little too overbearing for the lighthearted material that precedes it . 
in his gently satirical approach to popular culture and movie stardom , writer/director richard kwietniowski , adapting from the novel by gilbert adair , is 100% on- target . 
in the process , he not only creates a truly likable and memorable character in giles , but says a few things about the transforming power of love , even if it is unrequited . 
from start to finish , this is clearly hurt's movie ? he's in almost every frame . 
it's a role that the veteran actor must have relished , because he makes giles an unforgettable motion picture figure , and does so by means of dialogue delivery , body language , and ever-changing facial expressions . 
jason priestley , cashing in on his beverly hills 90210 image , is surprisingly effective as the shallow ronnie . 
he is charismatic , and it's not hard to understand why giles is attracted to ronnie . 
meanwhile , solid support is provided by the appealing fiona loewi and the always-reliable maury chaykin . 
love and death on long island is many things wrapped into one : a social commentary ( it tackles the thorny issue of film as pure art versus film as mindless entertainment ) , a buddy picture/love story ( ronnie and giles have one of the most interesting relationships found anywhere on a movie screen these days ) , and a " fish out of water " tale ( victorian relic giles forced into the modern world ) . 
yet , despite the many laughs love and death offers , it never takes cheap shots . 
it has a vibrant , beating heart ? and that makes the comedy all the more worthwhile . 
for many people , procrastination isn't a problem to overcome , it's a high art . 
we'll do just about anything to put off a task . 
when the deadline for this column nears , it's the only time during the week dishes get washed and the bed made and laundry done and plants watered and . . . 
eventually , hopefully , sometimes , there's a breakthrough and we actually get down to work . 
amazingly it's almost always easier than we dreaded and after finishing , that sense of oppressive apprehension melts away . 
and then , the next time , we do it all again . 
english professor grady tripp ( michael douglas ) is a master . 
seven years ago , his first book was a hit . 
he's been working on his second -- a short 200-page piece -- since then . 
fearful that he can't live up to the first , he can't bring himself to finish it . 
no writer's block , he's nearing 3 , 000 pages with no end in sight . 
now he's having a particularly difficult day . 
the college's annual writers conference is bringing in accomplished novelists reminding tripp that other people are finishing _their_ books . 
during the first day , his wife has left him , his married girlfriend informs him she's pregnant and his agent is in town with a six-foot transvestite in tow . 
by the evening , our besieged writer is driving though the snow-covered streets of pittsburgh with a suicidal student beside him , a stolen jacket that marilyn monroe wore on her wedding day in the back seat and a murdered blind dog stuffed in the trunk . 
this could be a pivotal point in his mid-life crisis . 
and then there's the next morning . 
there's a lot to like about this movie . 
there are no huge explosions , shattering glass or computer-generated dinosaurs to distract from the very real human issues . 
grady is caught up in the curse of people who accomplish great things early in their career . 
in the world of " what have you done for me lately ? " , he knows his second book has to be better than his first . 
instead of finding out , he drifts , comfortable in the insular cocoon of academic peter panhood . 
he doesn't have much of a life and neither does his star pupil james leer ( tobey maguire ) . 
james may be suicidal and psychotic . 
certainly everything that comes out of his mouth is a lie . 
he makes up a past of working clash anguish because the truth of wealth and comfort just isn't interesting enough . 
as the weekend progresses , they are both forced to fully engage life . 
that's the question they must face : comfort or real experiences ? 
the film takes some interesting chances . 
non-traditional relationships are presented as matter-of-fact . 
extra-marital , gay , interracial , professor-student : here they aren't judged , merely choices . 
the actors are all first-rate . 
douglas triumphs , playing against type as he spends most of his time disheveled , unshaven and clad in a pink women's house robe . 
maguire's disengaged alienation works perfectly here . 
robert downey jr . as grady's agent livens up his scenes . 
director curtis hanson ( " l . a . 
confidential " ) makes a few missteps . 
the women are underused . 
frances mcdormand does a good job of her limited role of sara , grady's married lover but we never understand much of who she is . 
the chemistry between the two of them is non-existent which makes some of the ending unconvincing . 
katie holmes is a student with a major crush on the professor , but her character goes nowhere . 
we never even see grady's exiting wife . 
this is very much a guy's film . 
the varied relationships between the men are much more convincing than any of the others . 
grady's alternating mentoring and rejection of james is the centerpoint of the film , not him and sara . 
as the boomers age , expect to see more mid-life crisis films to catch the attention of that demographic . 
eventually it'll probably become cliche , but right now we've got a winner . 
i'll finish this in a second . 
right now i have to grab some paint . 
i noticed some trim in the other room that needs a little touch-up . 
 ( michael redman has written this column for so long that he's made mid-life crisis a career choice . ) 
meet joe black ( reviewed on nov . 27/98 ) 
starring brad pitt , anthony hopkins , claire forlani 
in " meet joe black " , brad pitt plays death . 
that's all that really needs to be said , but nevertheless , i will provide the three of you that have seemingly been living in a cave with a plot description . 
death decides to take a holiday , what with all the rigors of soul-collecting and all , and forces anthony hopkins into showing him what it's like to be human . 
death assumes the body of brad pitt , and from there , much trouble ensues . 
for one thing , death-as-pitt falls in love with hopkins daughter , played by claire forlani . 
obviously this enrages hopkins , because really , what can death offer ? 
besides eternal damnation , of course . 
there is also a sub-plot about forlani's ex-boyfriend ( she dumps him for pitt ) trying to take over hopkins company . 
 " meet joe black " runs just under three hours . 
i've always thought that such obscene running times should be limited to historical epics . 
 " meet joe black " is neither historical nor is it an epic , though i get the feeling martin brest ( the director ) desperately wants it to be . 
every single scene in the movie goes on about 3-4 minutes too long . 
and the ending takes about 20 minutes longer than it really should . 
a severe editing job could have made this movie excellent , instead of just good , which is what it is . 
pitt , an actor i normally loathe , is actually quite engaging as death . 
i believed his performance , and i could see why forlani's character would fall in love with him . 
i have to agree with roger ebert , though , who found it hard to believe that an entity that's been around for all time wouldn't know what peanut butter was . 
that has nothing to do with pitt's performance , of course , but it is a little distracting . 
hopkins gives his usual excellent performance . 
he's able to portray the angst of a man who knows he has very little time left , without making him an obnoxious whiner . 
and in her first major studio role , claire forlani is surprisingly good . 
she has a sweet tenderness that allows the audience to instantly root for her . 
so , " meet joe black " is a good movie hampered by it's ridiculous running time . 
had the film been cut by an hour or so , i have no doubt that i would be calling it one of the best movies of the year in this review . 
call it touched by a demon . 
gregory hoblit's fallen is a serial killer movie with an unusual , horrific twist . 
if marketed properly , this film could have crossover appeal for both those who appreciate supernatural tales like the prophesy and those who crave grim , dark thrillers like silence of the lambs and seven . 
in fact , there's even a little twin peaks to be found here , albeit with the lion's share of the weirdness distilled out . 
 ( remember bob ? ) 
the biggest failing of fallen is that , although it's consistently interesting , it's not always as edgy and suspenseful as one might hope . 
a serial killer ( elias koteas ) has been on the loose in philadephia , but detective john hobbes ( denzel washington ) , the noblest man on the police force , has brought him to justice . 
now , during his last hours on death row awaiting his inevitable date with the gas chamber , the mass murderer cryptically tells hobbes , " what goes around really goes around . " 
shortly thereafter , he begins to sing " time is on my side " as he's taken on his last walk . 
minutes later , the state of pennsylvania has carried out the execution and edgar reese is dead . 
but for hobbes , the nightmare is just beginning , because reese wasn't a normal psychopath ? he was the host body for a mythical dark angel named azazel . 
and , with reese's death , azazel is free to hop from body to body , murdering and wreaking havoc at will . 
only hobbes and a pretty , female theology teacher ( embeth davidtz ) have an inkling of what they're up against . 
the rest of the cops , including hobbes' partner , jonesy ( john goodman ) ; lou ( james gandolfini ) , a newcomer to the department ; and lieutenant stanton ( donald sutherland ) , don't have a clue , and , as a result , they are in mortal danger . 
as depicted by hoblit ( primal fear ) and cinematographer newton thomas sigel , philadelphia is a dark , dreary place ? a gothic city rather than a modern one . 
no skyscrapers or other monoliths of current architecture or technology are shown . 
the most famous landmark to appear isn't the liberty bell or independence hall ; it's geno's steaks . 
shadows and night scenes abound . 
the days are cloudy and unpromising . 
this is the kind of setting where it's easy to believe that fallen angels walk among men . 
fallen's plot is brimming with potential , not all of which is realized . 
somehow , i would have expected a more frightening tale to emerge from something with this kind of premise . 
but the level of terror , like that of gore , is kept in check . 
nevertheless , there are several creepily effective scenes as the spirit of azazel moves from body to body when people bump against each other on crowded city sidewalks . 
the film also boasts a chase sequence of a kind that can best be described as unusual . 
of the several dozen actors to play azazel , the best is by far elias koteas ( exotica , crash ) , who , despite only being on screen for about ten minutes , gives a fantastically charged performance . 
john goodman also seems to be enjoying himself , although his role for most of the film is relegated to that of a burly sidekick . 
sadly , however , these two are the only ones who excel . 
everyone else , including denzel washington , is boring . 
washington's flat performance is the most disappointing surprise of the film . 
it's not that he's bad per se , but he's not very interesting . 
there's no real sense of vulnerability or desperation in the way he portrays his character , and that keeps us distanced , however slightly , from hobbes . 
as circumstances become progressively more dire for the cop , and as his life-or-death chess game with azazel approaches the point of checkmate , i expected to be more on the edge of my seat than i was . 
washington's subdued approach is part of the reason for this ; i never felt a sense of urgency . 
however , at least washington was believable , which is more than can be said for embeth davidtz ( schindler's list ) and donald sutherland . 
to be fair , the flaws in their characters aren't all acting-related ; neither stanton nor gretta milano are well-written . 
that said , however , there's nothing inspired about either davidtz's or sutherland's work . 
both appear to be sleepwalking their way through the parts , as if they know that their contribution to the film is one of advancing the plot rather than developing a multi-dimensional individual . 
narratively , fallen has a few glaring weaknesses . 
although the plot proceeds with a convoluted , game-like structure , it uses a denzel washington-supplied voiceover to overexplain matters . 
at times , this is actually helpful , and it has a use beyond the obvious , but there are occasions when ponderous lines like " i like the night ? sometimes you come face to face with yourself " become a little hard to swallow . 
in addition , fallen is saddled with the same kind of disgustingly bland , generic theology embraced by numerous movies and tv shows like touched by an angel . 
however , despite the negatives , i'm still recommending fallen on the strength of its complex plot and especially its ending , which i loved . 
the final scenes are startling , audacious , and unexpected . 
it's not often that a plot development takes me by surprise the way this one did . 
at a time when most movies fall apart in the last ten minutes , fallen manages to buck the trend and redeem itself . 
this is not a great motion picture , but , considering how bad most january releases are , it's a reasonably entertaining way to spend two hours . 
and , whatever you do , don't walk out on the film before the end credits have begun to roll . 
james l . brooks , one of the developers of the simpsons and director of broadcast news , returns to the big screen with this entertaining , if slightly flawed comedy . 
nicholson plays melvin udall , probably the most horrible person ever on the screen . 
he's racist , homophobic , and never has a good word to say to anyone . 
so , nobody talks to him , except waitress carol conelly ( t . v 
sitcom star hunt , who was last seen in twister , 1996 ) . 
naturally , udall , conelly and gay neighbor simon bishop ( kinnear ) who nicholson hates , all hit it off in the end . 
like good will hunting ( 1997 ) and titanic ( 1997 ) , even though the outcome is completely obvious , as good as it gets is an enjoyable , funny and warm comedy . 
nicholson is hilarious as melvin , churning out insults with superb relish . 
only nicholson could get away with the lines that melvin delivers . 
hunt is also good as waitress carol , and easily rises to the challenge of nicholson . 
there's also ( thankfully ) a bit of chemistry between them . 
kinnear , as the gay neighbor , seems to have a slightly underwritten role , he's more of a plot convience than a character . 
although his performance is good , his character just seems to exist to help melvin and carol come together . 
in fact , the scene stealer is simon's dog , who is funnier than nicholson . 
but then again , pets are always cute on screen . 
providing solid support is cuba gooding , jnr ( jerry maguire , 1996 ) and yeardly smith ( who is the voice of lisa simpsons in the simpsons ) although gooding isn't as good as is character in maguire , he is still fun . 
he overacts a little , but not so much as to be annoying . 
smith is also good , although she has a fairly small role . 
even director lawrence kasdan ( body heat , 1981 ) makes an appearance as a doctor . 
but this is primarily nicholsons film , and every scene he's in , he's steals it . 
he's character is so hateful , though , it's amazing that anyone talks to him at all , especially carol . 
and this is the films main problem . 
it's totally unbelievable that carol would ever consider liking melvin . 
she doesn't fall in love with him naturally , the film forces her to fall in love with him . 
also , melvins character seems to go too nice , too quickly . 
i would doubt anyone with a character like melvins would be able to turn back to a nice , loving person . 
it would take a helluva long time , much longer than this film would like to make out . 
brooks direction is good , though , if a bit average , but he usually manages to get an emotion out of the audience . 
he handles the comedy scenes better than the sentimental ones ( he tends to pile on to much schmaltz ) but generally he's good . 
there's also a nice soundtrack by veteran composer hans zimmer . 
but , generally , as good as it gets achieves what it sets out to do , which is to make the audience feel good by the end of the movie . 
the movie is a bit overlong , but nicholson is such good fun that the running time passes by pretty quickly . 
overall , as good as it gets is a fun movie , even though it may be unbelivable , and certainly worth seeing ( if just for jack nicholsons performance . ) 
not quite as good as it gets ( pardon the bad joke ) , but still good fun . 
after a stylistic detour with mrs . 
parker and the vicious circle ( which , despite its uncomfortable tone , was close to being a conventional movie ) , director alan rudolph has returned to his unique brand of film making with afterglow , a romantic black comedy about love , betrayal , and self-absorption . 
while these may not be the most unusual themes to fashion into a motion picture , rudolph's atypical approach to the characters and their situations makes for an intriguing , if not always pleasant , movie . 
it is said that rudolph is a polarizing director ? meaning that most viewers either love his work or hate it . 
until mrs . 
parker , i had not been overly impressed by his movies . 
i found equinox , his last pre- mrs . 
parker effort , to be irritating and frustrating . 
i was somewhat surprised , therefore , to discover that i liked afterglow . 
there are several reasons for this , but the paramount one is that rudolph seems to have muted some of the most strident , mannered aspects of his approach . 
the characters here are more like real people with genuine problems , the story is absorbing , and the acting is top-notch . 
in short , rudolph has created a world that it's worth spending two hours in . 
afterglow introduces us to two unhappily married couples . 
jeffrey byron ( jonny lee miller ) is a cold , seemingly-heartless businessman who is sexually indifferent to his young wife , marianne ( lara flynn boyle ) . 
for her part , marianne is so obsessed with having a baby that she never attempts to interact with her husband on a human level . 
all she's interested in is seducing him during those few days when she's ovulating . 
after he refuses to make love , she decides to find someone else to play the role of sperm donor . 
the other couple , lucky ( nick nolte ) and phyllis mann ( julie christie ) , are an older pair , but they're no more content than jeffrey and marianne . 
a mysterious fracture in their past relationship has driven them apart . 
they remain married as a matter of convenience , but , since phyllis won't allow lucky to touch her , they have an unspoken agreement whereby he can fool around as much as he wants provided that no lasting bond is established as a result of these affairs . 
the landscape of emotional pain between them is palpable . 
the four characters begin interacting when marianne hires lucky as a handyman to fix up the inside of the apartment she shares with jeffrey . 
the two of them are immediately attracted to one another , and it doesn't take long before they're lounging together , naked , in her pool . 
meanwhile , jeffrey , who is captivated by older women , runs into phyllis in a hotel bar , is smitten , and invites her to accompany him on a weekend retreat to the mountains . 
the romantic couplings of the characters are interesting in that they illustrate the multiple faces of love . 
sex means something different to everyone ? to jeffrey , it's an unpleasant chore , a loss of control ; to marianne , it's a means to a maternal end ; to lucky , it's an enjoyable distraction that blocks out his marital troubles ; and to phyllis , it's a method of establishing or denying emotional closeness . 
ultimately , none of these characters appears to love anyone else as much as they love themselves . 
the greatest strength of the film lies not in the script , but in the performances . 
jonny lee miller is perfect as the selfish , callous , suit-and-tie businessman . 
those who recall him as sickboy in trainspotting will find that he is almost unrecognizable here as the image of conformity . 
lara flynn boyle , who wasn't impressive in rudolph's equinox , is greatly improved , making marianne a jumble of sexiness and vulnerability . 
nick nolte is delightful as the uninhibited lucky , and he manages to deliver some of rudolph's most pregnant lines with practiced ease . 
the clear standout , however , is julie christie , who is nothing short of delicious as the world-weary phyllis . 
her often wry , occasionally cutting asides are the source of much of the film's humor , and there's hardly ever a moment when she doesn't steal the spotlight from her co-stars . 
i don't know if afterglow is the film to convert rudolph- detractors , but it seems that this movie is a little more accessible than some of the director's earlier productions . 
enough of his trademark style remains , however , to reassure his supporters . 
afterglow is basically a four-pronged character study . 
the plot is not especially compelling , but the character interaction is , and that's the real reason to see this motion picture . 
rudolph has painted an able picture of the non-romantic side of love -- the one that has more to do with tolerance and familiarity than with affection and attraction . 
 " the fugitive " is probably one of the greatest thrillers ever made . 
it takes realistic , believable characters and tells an exciting story that's totally believable throughout . 
this isn't an over-the-top action flick for the sake of action , this is an intelligent adventure story with a real sense of mystery to it and it works perfectly . 
harrison ford stars as dr . richard kimble , a man who is wrongly accused and convicted of murdering his wife . 
the entire premise of the story revolves around this murder , but is not told in a straightforward manner . 
we constantly see flashbacks to the murder from kimble's perspective . 
hints are dropped from various times of the night kimble's wife , helen ( sela ward ) was murdered . 
we don't get to see who the killer is until much further into the story . 
in fact , we might even have a little doubt about kimble's innocence ourselves . 
the film doesn't spend much time on the details of kimble's trial and conviction as it is not the point of the story . 
one of the greatest action scenes ensues as we get a botched escape attempt by his fellow inmates which leads to a fantastic train wreck . 
but it does not at all seem gratuitous or formulated , it is actually suspenseful to watch . 
this movie is so incredible because it's able to take elements like these and make them wholly original and believable . 
tommy lee jones almost steals the show as deputy sam gerard , a u . s . marshall who is an expert in hunting fugitives . 
from the moment he appears we know a huge game of cat and mouse is about to occur . 
kimble and gerard are equally matched as there is no way to tell how one is going to outsmart the other . 
most of the film deals with richard's complex investigation as he tries to find the one-armed man who killed his wife . 
ford does not have a lot of lines here , so it is stuart and twohy's script and davis's outstanding direction that make the film as great as it is . 
just watching richard use his keen intelligence and wits , disguising himself , and doing his own detective work is very interesting . 
we know just as little as he does as to why his wife was killed , so as he learns more so do we . 
meanwhile gerard and his staff are using all their skills to hunt him down . 
at one point they run into each other and a great chase ensues , but richard is just too smart for them . 
he leaves clues for gerard to show his innocence and to help him solve the mystery . 
one of the greatest charms to the film is its sense of humor . 
there is a great sense of comradeship between gerard and his two closest deputies cosmo renfo ( pantoliano ) and biggs ( roebuck ) . 
they are trying to catch what they believe to be a dangerous murderer , yet they constantly start up small talk with each other , making funny wisecracks and one-liners , but not in any kind of distracting manner . 
the final act concludes with another terrific chase . 
richard figures out who the killer is and confronts him , and although we get a typical fight scene , the case is far from solved . 
the man who ordered the murder has been under our nose all along , and we don't realize this until the end when both richard and gerard put the pieces together . 
maybe the finally scene is a bit much , but it still has a believable atmosphere to it . 
we're so relieved when justice is served . 
it's not the plot is that makes " the fugitive " great , it's all the motions the characters go through to make for an intriguing story . 
watching a seemingly average man go through as much as this is what makes the movie so adventurous . 
if only hollywood could produce more movies like this . 
 ( 10/31/96 ) ( 1/29/97 ) ( 6/13/97 ) [see also : " nick of time " ] 
i think that any competent member of the human race who's ever seen a movie--any movie--could probably predict just about every turn in the wedding singer . 
even though i try very hard to not predict films as i'm watching them ( especially not romantic comedies ) , the plot of this particular film just advanced before me seconds , and sometimes minutes , before i actually saw it happen on screen . 
but i don't care . 
not even a little . 
my reasons for this are simple : 1 ) adam sandler is great . 
2 ) drew barrymore is great . 
3 ) the movie is so funny . 
there are parts that left me gasping for air because i was laughing so hard . 
i haven't laughed this hard in a movie since austin powers . 
sandler plays robby hart , a wedding singer who once had dreams of being in a rock band and writing his own music . 
in the opening scenes , he seems like a happy-go-lucky wedding singer , at least partially enjoying his profession and doing a rather good job of talking down a really drunk individual ( steve buscemi ) who decides that his brother's wedding is a good place to tell the whole world that his life , up to that point , was utter pointlessness . 
a week later , at his own wedding , he is left standing at the altar by his ex-fianc ? e , linda ( angela featherstone ) . 
with his life in complete disarray , he meets julia ( barrymore ) , a waitress . 
she is engaged to glenn ( matthew glave ) , and is to marry him in about three months . 
julia and robby become good friends when she enlists him to help with the wedding plans . 
soon ( and predictably ) it becomes pretty clear that glenn is a jerk , and that robby and julia really love each other . 
oh sure , it's trite . 
and if anyone making this film expected us to , like , feel suspense or something while watching the wedding singer , then they truly underestimated their audience . 
what makes the story bearable , aside from the terrific costumes and 80s music , are the performances . 
barrymore is simply adorable here ( i've never seen her look so close to the way she did in et ) . 
not only is she pleasant to look at , but her acting job here really is a good one--and it doesn't hurt that the character is likable and adequately well-written . 
and the jerk , played in full-force by graves , is just as despicable as any villain in any romantic comedy i've ever seen . 
naturally , the true star here is sandler . 
i think the guy is flat-out hilarious . 
he can say something that just isn't funny , and his delivery makes me laugh . 
his comedic performance here equals that of happy gilmore , but in this film he goes much further and proves to me that he can , indeed , hold his own as a leading man in a romantic comedy . 
whereas his roles in his previous films kind of had sandler playing sandler , the wedding singer gives him a character that , for the first time , he actually has to fit into . 
as far as i'm concerned he succeeded , and this film is testimony that he does , in fact , have some range in his talents . 
and the movie is just so funny . 
perhaps the best moment is when he sings a song for julia that he claims is a little uneven because he began writing it while in a good mood and finished it after his fianc ? e abandoned him . 
this is the part that literally had me groping for a breath of air . 
and while the film , like all romantic comedies , takes a hiatus from laughs towards the end because the plot has to finish up , there are more than enough truly hilarious moments in the first hour that make up for any slumps in progress during the second half . 
my formal complaints for the wedding singer aren't very important . 
the film is predicable , but who cares ? 
the characters are extremely likable , the movie is ridiculously funny , and the experience is simply enjoyable . 
in addition to this , i can't imagine anyone seeing the preview and not wanting to see the film . 
in that order , i conclude that it is pointless for me to even have written this review . 
i just want everyone to know that i laughed . 
a lot . 
based on the boris karloff's classic by the same name , the mummy starts off with the high-priest of osiris , imhotep , who murders the pharoah for his mistress and is punished by being mummified in the most horrifying way possible -- bandaged up , having his tongue removed , and being covered in flesh-eating scarab beetles , then entombed . . . all while still alive . 
recap a few thousand years later , where a soldier named rick ( played by brandan fraser ) aids a young historian named evelyn ( played by rachel wiesz ) and her brother , jonathan ( played by john hannah ) in finding the book of amon ra , in the process inadvertently freeing the mummy . 
problem is that the mummy wants to revive his mistress , using evelyn as a sacrifice . . . 
walking in with relatively low expectations , i thought this movie was actually pretty good . 
the visuals and cgi are astounding , and obviously not cheaply done at all . 
they pack a ton of detail into the images , especially during scenes involving mummies rendered completely by cgi . 
the computer special effects makes for some brilliant scenes , such as unnerving moments involving flesh-eating scarab beetles and moments where the mummy goes after the people who freed him ( after all , those who took his artifacts are cursed ) . 
unfortunately , the film attempts to be way too much in such a short span of time , becoming a tug of war for control between genres . 
on one hand , it is a fast paced action film . 
on the other , it's a frightening horror film . 
and on the side , it's a hilarious comedy . 
ideally , for it to be successful , the film would have to focus on one the more action oriented aspect , with one character serving as the comic relief ( that would be johnson ) . 
the problem with this film is that it has at least three characters serving as comic relief , with rick occasionally delivering his witty one-liner . 
if they were trying to make a horror-action-comedy , it would have helped if it were established early on in the film , but unfortunately , with the backstory of imhotep's entombment , that would be impossible . 
and then there's the slapstick fight scene between a sword-wielding rick and an army of mummies . 
while really well done , it had the feel of slapstick comedy . 
replace the sword with a chainsaw and you'd effectively have ash fighting zombies in army of darkness . 
while entertaining and funny , it feels really out of place . 
but at least it's a break from the naive heroes that brendan fraser has been playing a lot of . 
on the whole , the movie is pure popcorn fare from beginning to end , entertaining the audience . 
but i must end my review with a plea to movie theatre owners . . . turn 
the sound down ! 
while a lot of theatres have good sound systems , my ears were almost ringing as i walked out of the theatre ( the sound is particularly irritating and will make you crap your pants if you're not careful ) . 
when they were showing the trailer for the upcoming schwarzenegger film , " end of days " , it was so loud i couldn't make anything out . 
on re-watching italian writer/director dario argento's much lauded murder mystery tenebrae , i was struck more than anything else by how many sins he commits as a storyteller and manages to get away with . 
in emphasising style over matters of plot argento is somewhat notorious in cult film circles , but some aficionados still praise tenebrae as the greatest of his " giallo " murder mysteries . 
while it's certainly not perfect , repeated viewings reveal it to be nonetheless a densely plotted and terrifically stylish thriller . 
the story follows a promotional visit to rome by famous american mystery novelist peter neal ( anthony franciosa ) where he discovers that a serial killer is on the loose inspired by his latest book " tenebrae " . 
with the police on his back for leads , he decides to take a personal interest in the case and he soon becomes drawn into a mystery where all is not as it seems . 
the film benefits enormously from a fine central performance by franciosa . 
he brings grace , charm and a deceptive benigness to his character which provides an interesting foil to both the violence of the books he writes and the unfolding real-life horror around him . 
the film is awash with a fascinating psychosexual tension . 
argento peels back the facade of showbiz and jetset lifestyles to reveal an amoral , ambivalent , shadowy world where desire in all its forms has become a dangerous business . 
tenebrae is perhaps the most multi-layered of argento's scripts to date and there is much bubbling underneath the surface here . 
it may take at least two or three viewings to appreciate all the psychological themes at play . 
in that respect it strongly recalls his previous giallo deep red/profondo rosso ( the full-length italian language version ) and fans will enjoy spotting the recurring themes . 
needless to say for argento fans , there is no denying the director's brilliance as a stylist . 
many of the action and murder sequences are directed with his characteristic finesse and feature plenty of intriguing camerawork . 
they are all the more impressive for the fact that in this film argento creates mood by filling his scenes with light , rather than the dark shadows and deep rich colours of earlier works like deep red and suspiria . 
instead , tenebrae's set design and lighting paints a sleek , clinical , chilly vision of a vaguely futuristic urban world . 
and the soundtrack's mix of electronic atmospheres and gothic rock by frequent argento collaborators goblin is the perfect accompaniment . 
so tenebrae has much to recommend it , no question . 
still , constantly nagging at the back of this viewers mind is several lumps in the narrative . 
some critics argue that logic doesn't matter in argento films , but damnit , it matters in all films to the point where viewers don't deserve to feel cheated . 
by the way , if you don't want to know the solution to the mystery then skip the next three paragraphs . 
about an hour into tenebrae the story takes an unexpected twist which , properly handled , could have proved ingenious . 
we witness the murder of the serial killer himself by a man who , we later discover , is none other than the author peter neal . 
he is insane , apparently . 
the murders then continue for the remainder of the film as neal decides it's time to settle some personal business involving his neurotic wife . 
he is finally revealed to us as this " second killer " in the film's bloody climax . 
but argento muffs the twist , both technically and narratively . 
you see , we are supposed to be tricked into thinking that during this scene peter neal is actually an innocent witness who was crouching in the bushes nearby the whole time and spying on the killer's house . 
but thanks to poor editing , its had to believe neal could have murdered the killer anyway . 
bad cutting puts the timing way out . 
in other words , he's almost in two places at once . 
during this crucial scene we are also thrown a ridiculous red herring . 
by the film's end you realise that for the sake of an alibi neal must have self-inflicted a nasty injury in this earlier scene to make it look like he was attacked by a fleeing assailant . 
the injury ? 
he banged himself on the head with a bloody great rock ! 
thus , the revelation of the " hero " as a killer ( and anti-hero ) in the final scenes may still prove shocking , but its all somewhat implausible by the time the end credits have rolled . 
helpfully , in the end we do learn that the bizarre flashbacks of personal humiliation and murder that have permeated the film belonged to neal all along . 
but there too is a problem , as the explanations offered for his motivations are psychologically fuzzy to say the least . 
the story owes us a better understanding of franciosa's mind , his concealed madness and his sudden murderous rampage . 
tenebrae is also marred by annoying little inconsistencies . 
for instance , a teenage boy and girl leave a hotel room and minutes later we see the girl riding off on the back of a motorbike . 
we would assume the rider is the same boy , but it turns out to be some male character we aren't even introduced too ! 
that's careless filmmaking , pure and simple . 
why , you may ask , do i go on about the story's flaws ? 
because when it comes to visuals and set pieces , argento is one of the most exciting filmmakers in the world . 
take one of the extended scenes in tenebrae . 
an upset girl wandering the streets at night needlessly taunts a guard dog to the point where - almost unbelievably - it jumps a high fence and chases her across town . 
finally , as she desperately seeks escape from this crazed canine , she accidentally stumbles on the serial killer's lair . 
it's an absolutely masterful sequence , tense and exciting , and communicating a wealth of information through visuals alone . 
and that's exactly the kind of thing that makes the flaws so frustrating . 
too often , it seems , argento's films as a whole are less than the sum of their impressive parts . 
mind you , if you love murder mysteries then tenebrae is still worth a look . 
and if you're a fan of argento's unique style of giallo thriller then it's essential . 
see the uncut widescreen version if you can and drink in some of the wonderful cinematography by luciano tovoli . 
it's a stylish , great-looking and quirky film despite the problem narrative . 
a shame , because it doesn't have to be that way . 
take argento's more recent stendhal syndrome ( 1992 ) , where with the aid of co-writer franco ferrini he fashioned a solid storyline without sacrificing any of his surreal weirdness or visual panache . 
proof that he can do it , if he tries . . . 
as any sociologist will attest , your childhood and the types of parents that you have will heavily influence your happiness as an adult . 
parents that are supportive and environments that are nurturing will yield children who will embrace the values and norms that can allow them to live healthy and productive lives . 
but if your upbringing is marred with violence , hate and dysfunctionality , then your journey towards a happy adulthood will be saddled with psychological obstacles almost too great to overcome . 
`affliction' explores how a man never truly escapes the grip of an unforgivingly nightmarish childhood . 
the man in question is wade whitehouse ( nick nolte ) . 
here is a man who is like any other citizen on the surface . 
he is a productive member of the community and goes about his daily routine much like you and me . 
but as you scratch beneath the surface , something scary and evil begins to rear its ugly head . 
we see that he is a mean-tempered person . 
he has a hard time taking control of his emotions , which usually gets the better of him . 
he is quick to apologize for his actions and wants to be a gentle person , but something is sparking a tendency towards violence . 
he also has tremendous problems with relationships . 
he is divorced and his only connection to love is his daughter . 
but his bearish persona and stature alienates her . 
he is visibly shaken by her rejection even though she says that she loves him . 
his demeanor also puts his relationship with a local townsgirl ( sissy spacek ) at risk . 
she tries to remain true to him and supportive , but for women unlucky enough to attach themselves to this kind of person , relationships will ultimately end like sentences ending with an exclamation point . 
finally , he is spiteful and vindictive . 
as a rejected father , he initiates a custody battle that seems hopeless . 
as the town's only police officer , he issues a speeding ticket to a man whose father has just died . 
we can see that this is a man that is both afflicted and living with pain . 
he is a prisoner and a slave to it . 
he is moving towards a level of madness and insanity that defies comprehension . 
what kind of force can move a man to the edge of his emotions and beyond the reach of people who genuinely care for him ? 
we learn that the answer is his father ( james coburn ) . 
this is the kind of father that every son would be ashamed to have and that any woman would be afraid to meet . 
he is an overbearingly misogynistic and frequent drunk who rules with an iron fist . 
we see his tyrannical behavior through flashbacks . 
to heighten the father's churlishness , the flashbacks are shown as home video footage taken by a very frightened person . 
very effective . 
today , wade's dad is quite elderly , but still manages to instill fear into a grown man . 
the influence that the father possesses is inescapable , and its unsavory effect clamps down hard on the tortured wade . 
the result is every son's nightmare ? becoming like the father that one has always dreaded to be . 
this is a terrifically presented piece of psychological drama , and nolte turns in a strong performance as a man whose pain seems to become a detriment as well as a necessity . 
he's a hulking person who is still reduced to whimpers when in the presence of his father . 
coburn displays heft as the bitter dad . 
but , it's most certainly not saturday-night-friendly fare . 
there's nothing light or fluffy about this film . 
that may turn many moviegoers away . 
but it's certainly worth noting that this is a well-acted drama showcasing nolte's and coburn's raw acting talents . 
is evil dead ii a bad movie ? 
it's full of terrible acting , pointless violence , and plot holes yet it remains a cult classic nearly fifteen years after its release . 
explaining why this movie stands out from others with similar plots ( including the original evil dead ) is extremely difficult . 
`well what's it about ? ' 
`five people stranded in a log cabin in the middle of nowhere struggling to survive vicious attacks from a variety of ugly , hairy , wart covered monsters . ' 
`come on i saw a movie just like that on monster vision last week . 
why should i see it again ? ' 
`no evil dead ii is different , it's funny . ' 
`it's funny to see people die ? 
are you sick or something ? ' 
maybe i am and maybe director sam raimi is as well to create such an enigma of a movie . 
his unique execution is as sarcastic as subtle , as disturbing as it is hilarious . 
an example of raimi's odd approach : a monster ( formerly protagonist ash's girlfriend of all people ) is cut in half by a chainsaw and a tidal wave of blood comes from the open wound . 
sure it's over-the-top , but it is so over-the-top that it is laugh out loud funny ; just try watching ash with a straight face as he unexpectedly is showered with ten gallons of blood , staining his face and knocking him back a few feet . 
the whole movie is like this , watch ash get beat up , watch ash defeat the monster , watch ash get beat up again by another even zanier monster . 
the more repetitive and unrealistic the movie gets , the more amusing it becomes . 
no matter how sick it may sound , it is funny to watch bruce ampbell's ash get his butt kicked every five minutes . 
and raimi takes advantage , he has ash tormented by the head of his girlfriend , by the body of an old lady , even by his own right hand . 
like the less superior idle hands , we watch ash uncontrollably hit himself over and over again until he is forced to cut off his own body part . 
but it doesn't end , ash now has to fight his severed hand which now moves with the same celerity as thing from the addams family . 
all of these events , thrown at you from minute one with roller coaster- like camera movements , at first become shocking , then inexplicably funny . 
raimi expects the audience to laugh and as the film progresses , he seems to be enjoying himself even more by borrowing the classic mirror scene from the marx brothers' duck soup , then bringing more characters into the picture to comically kill them off . 
with a running time of less than an hour and a half , raimi gets away with the impossible , making a horror film with more gore than plot and intentionally more laughs than scares . 
ending evil dead ii with an opening for the third film in the series , raimi obviously had a lot of fun making this movie and couldn't wait to make it's sequel . 
it's rather strange too have two computer animated talking ant movies come out in a single year , but that is what disney and pixar animation ; s latest film represents . 
while a bugs life isn't nearly as deep as it's predecessor , dreamwork's antz , it is just as funny . 
a bug's life centers , appropriately , around the life of an ant , named flik . 
flik , cutely voiced by newsradio's david foley , hates sticking too tradition and attempts too find new ways of harvesting food and other task . 
when one of his inventions causes the offering too be completely lost , the leaders of the colony send him out on a mission too get him out of the way . 
the offering is food that a vile group of grasshoppers force the ants too harvest for them . 
the leader of the grasshoppers is hopper , who is fiendishly voiced by oscar winner kevin spacey . 
when the offering is lost hopper is very upset and he vows to return shortly too retrieve double the amount of food . 
when the leaders of the ant colony send flik out on his mission , they never dream he will be successful , they just hope they can get him out of the way so they can harvest the extra food . 
flik's mission is too hire some warrior bugs too fight off the grasshoppers when they return . 
instead flik accidentally hires circus performing bugs , who he mistakenly assumes are warriors . 
when he returns with the `warriors' , the town is ecstatic until they find out the truth about their heroes . 
a bug's life has animation that is simply stunning . 
the sheer uniqueness of the day to day bug life is very imaginative . 
together with the great voice acting , this film is the perfect holiday family film . 
its main weakness is that it couldn't beat antz to the theaters , making it seem like stale material . 
not since oliver stone's natural born killers has there been a movie this incendiary , and not since david cronenberg has a so-called mainstream director been this willing to repeatedly tiptoe the fine line between pointed social commentary and outright social irresponsibility . 
while fincher's films have never suffered from a lack of shock value ( his major character killings in both alien 3 and seven are fine examples ) , fight club marks the distillation of his pitch-black comedic sensibility ( see 1997's the game ) into something like a definitive statement . 
jack ( norton , acting as both narrator and protagonist ) is your typical cubicle clone , whose disillusionment is amplified by a seemingly incurable insomnia . 
on the offhand advice of a doctor , he sits in on group-therapy sessions for everything from blood parasites to testicular cancer . 
here he meets bob ( marvin lee aday , aka meat loaf ) , a cancer-emasculated eunuch with profound gynecomastia . 
strangely , the release he finds while sobbing on bob's breasts allows him to sleep at night , at least until a fellow group-therapy " tourist " named marla singer ( carter ) comes along to ruin things for him , forcing a grudging compromise that recalls monty python in its dark hilarity . 
later , he meets tyler durden ( pitt ) , a soap salesman with a decidedly subversive outlook on life . 
one night , after his ikea- furnished condo explodes ( don't ask-- you'll just have to see the movie , awright ? ) , he is goaded by tyler into a fight , and damned if it doesn't feel good . 
it is pure , raw existence , a brief moment of clarity and purpose that makes his dreary workaday life pale in comparison . 
he moves into tyler's squalid abandoned mansion , and they form the titular organization , an underground therapy group where men bond with bare-knuckle savagery and very few rules , the first two of which are " don't talk about fight club . " 
armed with charisma and an attractive anti-corporate philosophy , tyler assumes leadership of the burgeoning membership of white-collar slaves and dead-end mcemployees . 
resentment creeps into jack's heart , made worse by the fact that tyler is also regularly and noisily boffing the hated marla . 
funded by a frivolous lawsuit , tyler begins molding his devotees into an army dedicated to mischief and mayhem . 
their initially juvenile pranks ( like pissing in food and putting spike belts on roads ) quickly evolve into something more like sedition , and jack fears that things have gone sour . 
it is after this point , when you are plenty uncomfortable and wondering just how far fincher will go to say something original , that the film uncorks a disappointing plot twist . 
it is so contrived-- and so conventional compared to what precedes it-- that everything which follows ( including the ending ) becomes far less interesting . 
it's a major ( though not fatal ) flaw , and for a director as notoriously unpredictable as fincher , it feels like a cop-out . 
fight club is going to be misconstrued by a great many people . 
in the early going , it has a downright dangerous feel ; it seems to be saying that violence and civil disobedience are good for the soul , and this is undoubtedly the message that a few moronic punks are going to take from it . 
i'll be mightily surprised if imitation fight clubs don't spring up here and there , and i'll be even more amazed if fincher isn't vilified for it by the same humorless witch-hunters that are currently after oliver stone . 
they needn't bother , because fight club is less a message movie than fincher's elaborate attempt at a joke . 
tyler durden , for all his dionysian allure , is really nothing more than the logical ( and far less hypocritical ) extrapolation of all those self-help gurus who constantly show up on oprah to preach their me-first gospel of self-actualization . 
in this context , the joke works , but like the latest columbine joke , some people will get it and enjoy a good laugh , and others won't . 
hopefully , though , their silly moral outrage won't spoil the joke for the rest of us . 
plot : a bunch of bad guys dressed up as elvis impersonators rob a vegas casino during a presley convention . 
the boys eventually get together to split the money , but as plans change , double-crosses occur , dealing and wheeling goes down and the crew set up for the road . 
who's on the up and up , who's the real bad guy and who's gonna get to bang courteney cox are just a few of the questions which will be answered by the rest of this movie . 
critique : the funnest movie that i've seen so far this year ! 
it's got style , it's got tough guys talkin' shite and it's got plenty of bullets to go around . 
a definite hunk-a-hunk-a burnin' adventure ! 
a guy's guy movie through and through , and one that'll set your jollies to high if you dig on the rough stuff . 
it's not very original , it goes on for a little too long , but costner and russell make it happen , as two shite-kickin' elvis lovers , who don't stop till they , more or less , drop . 
this movie's got some pretty intensive shoot-out scenes , one of the coolest robbery scenarios that i've ever witnessed , featuring several elvises with guns a blazin' and the king's music playing in the background , and a decent helping of double-crosses , sharp dialogue and funny moments . 
in fact , even though the cast is filled with many name actors ( b-actors as they might be for the most part ) , most of them do their bit and succeed well in passing the torch onto the next victim . 
but the true glue that holds this film together , other than the spirit of elvis himself , is costner and russell , who play their badass characters to the t . sure , russell's been down this road before , but costner surprised me with his nastiness . 
i guess he's pissed at all the box-office bombs that he's been in of late , but he sure played a great unstable elvis impersonating robber here . 
in the end , the bottom line with this movie is having fun , kickin' ass and making sure there's enough bubblegum around to chew afterwards . 
and smoke 'em if you got 'em , folks ! 
there is also this one really great show-down scene between costner and a cop , that'll have you crackin' up and lovin' it all at the same time . 
the violent scenes in this movie are violent and the entire film is wrapped in a soundtrack that'll kick your arse from this end of the theatre to the next . 
it should actually come to no surprise to anyone that the director of this movie comes from a music video background , with plenty , and i mean plenty , of camera tricks , cuts and edits , but for this kind of flick , it actually works . 
the film is not perfect though , it starts off with a pretty big bang , but then pulls a way of the gun on us , and slows the pace down somewhat in the middle , while characters intermingle and disperse . 
i was personally kept in the game despite some soft spots , and enjoyed the overall ride for what it was as well . 
and did i mention that courteney cox looked mega-hot in the movie ? 
no . . . okay , 
well i just did ! 
i coulda done without her whole " romance " angle , but to be honest , it doesn't take up much of the film , which is generally covered in blood , explosions , guts and elvis nods . 
try to see how many " inside " connections to the king you can guess . 
of course , it's no secret that i am quite a big elvis fan myself so please take this whole review with that grain of salt in mind . 
i also like these types of " guy " movies a lot , and even though the film doesn't bring much originality to the table , it does offer a pretty coherent story , some nice twists and turns , humor and a big ol' helping of whoop-ass coming straight from costner and russell's respective boots . 
probably not a film for everyone , but definitely for those who enjoy the guns , the charismatic bad guys and a fun , if entirely disposable , adventure . 
now see how many elvis songs i've used to pun my way through this phony review below . 
the elvis songs also recommend this movie ! 
so whether you're lonesome tonight or any other night , remember to pack the teddy bear with bullets , leave your little sister at home , bring your bossa nova baby and rock out of that jailhouse , cause this movie ain't one to return to the sender . 
i really beg of you , whether you're stuck in the ghetto or crying in the chapel , to slap this cinematic ring around your neck and love it tender . 
and no suspicious minds either , folks , cause i got stung by this movie , i mean it really shook me up , and unless you're the devil in disguise himself , i think you won't be able to help falling in love with this lucky charm either . 
so don't be cruel , don't turn away , don't curl up with your latest flame tonite ( whether she be a hard-headed woman or not ) and surrender to the hound dog of movies that is this film . 
it's now or never , folks . 
trust me , i did it my way and the heartbreak hotel of crappy movies that i'd seen so far this year is far behind me . 
joblo has now officially left the sanity of his mind and this building . 
thank you . . . thank 
you very much ! ! 
where's joblo coming from ? 
get carter ( 7/10 ) - heat ( 8/10 ) - honeymoon in vegas ( 9/10 ) - payback ( 8/10 ) - reindeer games ( 5/10 ) -reservoir dogs ( 9/10 ) - way of the gun ( 6/10 ) 
>from the commercials , this looks like a mild-mannered neil simonesque tale with mary tyler moore baring her bra touted as the highlight . 
instead it turns out to be a hilarious film running in high gear from beginning to end . 
the concept is deceptively pedestrian . 
an adult adopted son is looking for his biological parents and encounters eccentric characters along the way . 
the movie demonstrates just how far a good script and actors can take a mundane idea . 
the son and his wife take off on the search accompanied by a woman from the agency who located his parents . 
following one dead end lead after another , each funnier than the previous , they eventually end up in new mexico with his real biological parents : alan alda and lily tomlin . 
it's difficult to condense the mile-a-minute plot . 
seemingly hundreds of scenes jump on top of each other without giving you a chance to recover from the last one . 
without giving too much away , one of the better episodes involves a gay federal alcohol , tobacco and firearms agent attempting an arrest while tripping on lsd as his bi-sexual partner is upstairs licking the armpit of a woman while her husband is in the next room seducing their traveling companion . 
and it's all done in a fairly clean , almost ( well , maybe not exactly ) family fare manner . 
a grand cast ( tomlin , alda , moore , ben stiller , patricia arquette , tea leoni , george segal ) interacts in a seamless parade of laughs . 
drawing from a more hyper woody allen style , the film succeeds beyond expectations . 
i'm not quite sure how best to go about writing this review . 
i must admit that i was a little disappointed by barry levinson's political satire " wag the dog , " but in retrospect , this has less to do with the film itself than with false expectations i had going into it . 
quite a few of the reviews i have read led me to believe that this film was absolutely hilarious and would make me laugh out loud the whole way through , and it didn't do that . 
they also led me to believe that it would deliver a vicious and all-too-true attack on the way the american political media works , and it didn't quite do that either . 
a few of them even suggested that it would prove a worthy successor to stanley kubrick's " dr . 
strangelove " in the tradition of political black comedy , and it most definitely didn't do that . 
that said , " wag the dog " is actually a very clever satire on the shady manipulations of political figures and those who assist them . 
the story revolves around the attempts of political spin doctor conread brean ( robert deniro ) to distract the american public from the accusations that the president , who is up for re-election in two weeks , sexually harassed a young girl in the oval office . 
the accusations , the script suggests , are probably untrue , but as brean so pointedly puts it , that isn't particularly relevant : the scandal is likely to derail the president's campaign regardless of its truth or falsehood . 
brean , along with his assistant ( anne heche ) , decide to contact hollywood producer stanley motss ( dustin hoffman ) to enlist his help in concocting enough propaganda and special-effects trickery to make it appear that the u . s . is going to war with albanian terrorists and thus propel the president to victory on a wave of patriotic fervor . 
as i said , " wag the dog " is not quite as laugh-out-loud hilarious as i had expected , but there are some genuinely funny moments to be found here , such as when , in an echo of a familiar movie clich ? , the camera pans out over an urban sunset to the strains of uplifting , inspirational music , then cuts to a studio to reveal that the singing is coming from a group of musicians whom motss has assembled to perform " we have the right to fight for democracy . " 
another scene shows us how , with modern editing equipment , an actress running across a sound stage with a bag of potato chips can be turned into a frightened young girl and her kitten fleeing a terrorist attack on her village . 
the most consistently effective gag revolves around the propaganda team's attempt to forge a fictional war hero out of sgt . 
william " old shoe " schumann ( woody harrelson ) , an ex-military officer who turns out to be a first-class psycho . 
of course , not everything goes as planned ; the cia , for example , realizes what's going on and strikes a deal with the president's electoral opponent to report to the media that the " fighting " has ended , forcing motss and brean to come up with a new angle on the supposed albanian crisis . 
still , even with the cia's involvement , the film falls a little short in terms of making this scenario believable . 
regardless of the official word from the president or the cia , wouldn't the major media outlets have eastern european correspondents who could verify that there is , in fact , no fighting going on in albania ? 
the film never addresses this question , nor does it show the reactions of the american public to the news of the apparent war except for a few scenes which border on the farcical , such as when basketball fans litter the court with shoes in support of the aforementioned sgt . 
schumann ; we are apparently meant to assume that everyone is buying it . 
there was also an instance , towards the end of the film , in which one of motss's forced reinventions of the story seems to contradict what he and brean had been selling to the public thus far and could conceivably have given the game away . 
with these plot holes , " wag the dog " doesn't quite work as a satire of american politics , but it does send up the mentality that might lead to these kinds of machinations in the first place . 
brean and his advisors never seem concerned that what they are doing is unethical ; rather , they worry about how convincing it will be and whether or not they have enough money to pull it off . 
the film takes a decidely dark turn towards the end , as we learn how far they are willing to go in order to keep the propaganda campaign a secret . 
motss and his hollywood buddies , meanwhile , seem completely out of touch with the rest of the world and just see this undertaking as another creative project . 
in fact , one of the sources of conflict in the film is motss's increasing restlessness with the idea of not being able to take credit for producing the fake war ; in his mind , it is the greatest work of art he has ever created . 
i think it's fair to say that " wag the dog " underachieves a little bit : more attention to the public reaction and tighter plotting might have made this into a four-star film and a classic satire . 
still , the issue of an american president using war and patriotism to distract from scandals or domestic unpopularity is a very real one . 
wag the dog takes the issue one step further and asks , what if the war wasn't even real ? 
with this premise and the talented cast , the film still delivers more consistently than most , whatever its flaws . 
the sheer horrific audacity of the nazi plan to exterminate the jews of europe is almost incomprehensible . 
people may make documentaries about it for another hundred years and still not understand the organized , methodical hatred . 
five concentration camp survivors from the last days of world war ii tell their stories in the last days , the first documentary from steven spielberg's survivors of the shoah visual history foundation . 
the five interviewees are linked by their hungarian ancestry . 
as the introduction explains , even as germany started to lose the war , the nazis stepped up their extermination of the jews in europe . 
in 1944 , hungary had the last big population of jews within germany's reach , and they became the last target of hitler's " final solution . " 
each of the five tells his or her story . 
their stories are intercut chronologically , starting from normal life in pre-war hungary . 
they recall the nazi invasion of hungary , being sent to " work " camps and their realization that they were actually in death camps . 
they recall their horrible , precarious lives in auschwitz and buchenwald ; the deaths of their family and friends ; their loss of hope . 
each recalls his or her unfathomable , eventual liberation . 
and finally , the last days shows their cathartic , pained , modern-day return to their old homes and the camps . 
needless to say , their stories are horrifying , amazing , and emotionally draining . 
by themselves , the stories would be forceful testaments , but by cutting them in parallel , their impact is multiplied by five . 
the last days is a talking-heads style documentary -- it's mostly pictures of people telling their stories , intercut with period photographs and newsreel footage . 
in this kind of movie it's almost impossible to get archival pictures from the same time and place being discussed on-screen , but director james moll made a better effort than most at finding specific , or at least relevant , images to go with his subjects' narration . 
the liner notes ( one of the many nice features of this dvd ) indicate that there is some never-before-seen historical footage in the last days . 
it's not clear which scene it is . 
it could be one of two that i hadn't seen before , both powerful . 
one is rare color footage , shot by an american , of piles of victims in cattle cars . 
there is something jarring , something unsettling about seeing the pictures in color , when so much of the footage from world war ii is in black and white . 
another segment shows walking skeletons ; survivors who are so starved that they hardly look human anymore . 
there has been a glut of holocaust movies and i was skeptical that a new documentary would have anything new to say . 
but by focusing on hungarian jews during the last days of the war , moll told a specific part of the story in a new way , in greater detail . 
and i'm glad he did because his careful filmmaking stands up well compared to other movies on the same subject . 
the transfer to dvd is rich and beautiful . 
x-mozilla-status : 0009f words for a holocaust documentary , but some of the interviews take place in europe in late spring , when skies are blue and trees are green . 
also , the movie was shot on 35mm film ( and not video ! ) , 
so the richness and detail are impeccable . 
the dvd's features are plentiful and well-chosen . 
there is a theatrical trailer for the movie , which is a great introduction to the subject matter . 
there are about fifty still photos , both from the production crew and from the private collections of the survivors . 
also , the disc has two complete versions of the movie ( widescreen and full screen ) , both on the same side . 
one of the more interesting dvd features is an outtake segment for each of the survivors ( plus one for the crew ) . 
you'd think outtakes would be inappropriate in a holocaust documentary , but they're not bloopers . 
instead , they are solid , moving segments that were probably cut from the film only for length . 
one of them continues a confrontation that was only touched on lightly in the film . 
renee firestone ( one of the five ) spoke on camera with dr . hans m ? nch , a german doctor who ran the medical clinic at auschwitz . 
firestone was aggressive , questioning the doctor about what his children thought . 
the doctor was evasive and clearly uncomfortable . 
another of the outtakes showed bill basch saying a prayer for his dead friends at auschwitz . 
he ends his prayer by saying " . . . forgive me for surviving . " 
it's ambitious to shoot a documentary on 35mm film . 
it's ambitious to make it on a subject that has saturated cable , television , and movies . 
it's ambitious to make it 54 years after the events it covers . 
but the last days handles all these potential obstacles very well . 
it's only fitting that the dvd , with its wealth of interesting and relevant features , would also be ambitious and successful . 
it is easy to label something sentimental or tear jerking when one has not experienced the heartache of losing a child ? whether that may be in life or in death . 
after having said that , i will also say that this movie does all of the above very well . 
one gets that choking sensation in the throat ( because of grief ) when one brother forgives another for a costly mistake , or when a husband hugs his wife after a long estrangement . 
there is no ocean , no drownings and it does not conjure up memories of yet another ? ordinary people' . 
in fact the only thing remotely connected to the ocean is probably tap water and the toilet flushing ( not that this literally happened in the movie ) . 
so what are the lessons learnt : 1 . 
don't take your children to class reunions . 
2 . don't leave them alone in the lobby , not even for a second . 
michelle pfeiffer once again plays the role of a highly-strung wife and mother , a trend that started with ? a thousand acres' and ? one fine day' . 
my comment is that she is exceptionally fine strung in this movie , so much so that when she has a nervous break down , the veins on her temples bulge impressively . 
whoopi golberg also puts in an understated performance , playing a lesbian cop , with a name that makes one want to reach for a lollipop . 
lastly , who are the ideal companions for this sort of movie ? my grandmother comes to mind . 
i know that " funnest " isn't a word . 
 " fun " is a noun , and therefore cannot be conjugated like an adjective . 
but that's the word that came to me right after viewing " chicken run . " 
no wonder : this is the kind of movie that reduces you to childish expressions , like " that was the funnest movie i've ever seen ! " 
so to hell with webster's -- " chicken run " is one of the funnest movies i've seen in a while . 
i can't remember the last time i've seen anything funner . 
the chickens at tweedy's farm are up to something . 
living in a concentration camp-like atmosphere , they are led by one plucky hen called ginger ( voice of julia sawalha ) who continually comes up with plans for escape -- and always gets caught , subsequently spending day after day in the coal box . 
one night , a brash american rooster flies in over the fence , calling himself rocky ( mel gibson ) , famous flying rooster and circus performer . 
rocky promises to teach the chickens how to fly , and the situation grows more desperate as the nefarious mrs . tweedy ( miranda richardson ) decides to abandon the farm's egg-selling plan for a pie-selling plan . 
she orders a huge pie-making machine , cackling , " chickens go in ; pies come out . " 
what sort of pies ? 
chicken pies , of course . 
co-director nick park and his studio , aardman animation , produced three oscar-winning short films : " creature comforts , " " the wrong trousers , " and " a close shave . " 
the latter two were the second and third installments of a trilogy starring the delightful team wallace & gromit , a man and his dog famous for getting themselves into increasingly peculiar adventures . 
part of what made the " wallace " films brilliantly entertaining was park's uncanny ability to make an old story seem new . 
 " the wrong trousers , " for example , pulled out a lot of old hitchcockian suspense tricks , and " a close shave " owed a great deal of inspiration to classic detective stories . 
but in the hands of park and his team , the stories felt fresh and inspired , and not the least bit contrived . 
now teaming with co-director peter lord , park has created a similar creature in " chicken run . " 
the plot is largely lifted from " the great escape " ( watch for a quick reference to the ball-bouncing scene ) , with some spielberg-inspired action sequences providing the excitement . 
thing is , the film doesn't feel like it's been lifted from somewhere else ; " chicken run " feels fresh , alive , like nothing else ever done . 
part of it is the original idea : who in the world came up with the idea to make a prisoners-of-war movie starring chickens ? 
park and lord milk the incongruity for all it's worth : the characters treat their situation as if it were dead serious , and to them , it is . 
but they're * chickens * , so it's funny to us . 
another thing that helps " chicken run " ( and most of park's films ) succeed is the animators' subtle way of giving nods to the very films they're cribbing . 
there are references to " the great escape , " obviously , and " stalag 17 . " 
the chase sequence inside the chicken grinder parodies both " raiders of the lost ark " and " indiana jones and the temple of doom . " 
there's even a nod to " the blues brothers , " if you can believe it , and the filmmakers even get in a little light-hearted ribbing at the expense of their star voice actor , taking a couple of very subtle jabs at mel gibson's nationality and film history . 
the " braveheart " reference is a hoot if you catch it . 
when you consider just how fine a line resides between a funny parody and a redundant one , " chicken run " is downright brilliant in its execution . 
consider this : since july of last year , i've seen dozens upon dozens of " blair witch project " parodies , on television , on the radio , and online . 
out of all those , maybe one or two were amusing , the rest tiresome . 
why ? 
because once you got past the thought that " they're parodying that&#8216 ; blair witch' movie , " most of the parodies had nothing to offer -- no insight , no original idea , no greater purpose . 
they were only funny if you had seen the movie ; otherwise , you got nothing . 
conversely , " chicken run " doesn't lean on its parodies -- the film references are never the sole focus of any scene . 
if you've never seen " indiana jones , " the chase sequence is still fun . 
even if you have no idea who mel gibson is , rocky remains an interesting character . 
park , lord , and screenwriter karey kirkpatrick realize that an audience does not need a parody shoved in their faces before it's understood , and as a result , " chicken run " is filled with visual and verbal jabs that are never too obvious , but not quite vague either . 
enjoyment of this movie doesn't require knowledge of film history , but if you've got it , " chicken run " is that much richer . 
the voice cast turns in uniformly lively performances , and the characters they play are given so many subtle nuances that it's hard not to fall in love with every one of them . 
ginger is perfect , spunky and opinionated , but with a soft heart that forbids her to leave her companions behind , and julia sawalha ( known as the cute mousy girl on " absolutely fabulous " ) nails it . 
she has warm , human chemistry with gibson , whose rocky hides his personal doubt under a brash gung-ho veneer . 
the characters' inevitable romance doesn't feel contrived , but sweet . 
poor mr . tweedy ( tony haygarth ) suspects the chickens are organizing in some way , but his limited intellect prevents him from figuring things out , and his overbearing wife certainly isn't any help . 
jane horrocks delivers a lovely voice characterization as tragically optimistic babs ( a hen that runs away with most of the best one-liners , all while perpetually crocheting a sweater ) , and two supply-trading rats that seem to have walked straight out of a monty python sketch nearly steal the show during the lively central swing-dancing sequence . 
they even come up with an inspired riff on something that's baffled scholars and theologians alike for decades : the chicken vs . egg dilemma . 
one might have expected this inevitable joke to come off as wearisome , but as with most of " chicken run , " it comes as a delightful surprise . 
the film manages to cross all barriers ; it should be accessible to both children and adults , brits and yanks , rats and chickens . 
the animation is first-rate . 
remember that this was all done the old-fashioned way , with actual humans moving clay figurines around on a tiny set bit by painstaking bit , and you see just how truly remarkable " chicken run " really is . 
this movie possesses that same quality that makes pixar studios' animation great : precise and unwavering attention to detail . 
as in such top-notch family fare as " a bug's life " or " toy story 2 , " " chicken run " has something to offer in nearly every frame . 
certainly a passive viewer can enjoy it as a straightforward story with a worthwhile moral and some surprisingly touching scenes , but a active , attentive viewers will enjoy it even more because they'll catch all the details . 
anyway , the movie's just a boatload of fun . 
funnest damn movie i've seen all year . 
capsule : a short punchy action sequel to the two dinosaur films made by steven spielberg . 
joe johnston directs a straightforward story of an excursion back to the island of the dinosaurs . 
it lets us see some new dinosaurs ( is that an oxymoron ? ) and gives us a nice and generally reasonably written adventure . 
the film is neither ambitious nor pretentious . 
i had a good time . 
 , low +2 ( -4 to +4 ) 
here goes my credibility . 
this is a film on which i expect to be in a minority . 
i liked the third jurassic park film . 
i even liked the second jurassic park film . 
in a lot of ways jurassic park : the lost world was a creative three-way braiding together of michael crichton's novel the lost world , arthur conan doyle's novel the lost world , and the classic silent film version of the doyle . 
jp2 was an adventure , as doyle said , " for the boy who's half man or the man who's half boy . " 
that is what all the jurassic park films are . 
expecting them to give the viewer insights into the human condition is like expecting your car to vacuum your house . 
the classic adventure films like gunga din or king solomon's mines had under-written characters also . 
jurassic park iii is an all out adventure on an island inhabited by dinosaurs . 
the characters are a little more complex than they at first appear to be , and even that is a little more complex than i was expecting . 
some of the characters who start out looking stupid and useless prove to be neither as the film proceeds . 
that degree of complexity combined with those very realistic looking dinosaur effects is just about as much as i require . 
i feel i got my money's worth . 
the story opens with eric ( played by trevor morgan ) and friend parasailing near the forbidden island of isla sorna off costa rica . 
this was the research island where the dinosaurs were created for the now defunct jurassic park . 
they hope , no doubt , to get a look at the island's dinosaurs from a safe height . 
the height is safe , but driving the boat in the water is not . 
the two soon find themselves in trouble and have to ditch their parasail onto the island where they do indeed get a better look at the dinosaurs than they had intended . 
flash to the united states and someone is offering to fund paleontologist alan grant ( sam neill ) in his research if he will go and fly over isla sorna and act as a guide . 
he has said that no force on earth or heaven could get him back near real dinosaurs . 
but again money convinces him to drop what he is doing and go . 
doing the convincing is a wealthy and eccentric couple ( william h . macy and tea leoni ) who has been just about everywhere else in the world and wants the adventure of seeing real dinosaurs . 
they too plan to see the island from a safe height grant is relieved to learn . 
he will fly over this island at a safe altitude just this once . 
right . 
guess what happens next ? 
jp3 probably functions better as a sequel than jp2 . 
first it has alan grant and ellie sattler ( laura dern ) back rather than the much less appealing ian malcolm . 
sattler has a much smaller part in jp3 , but is still present to tie this story to the first . 
curiously each film seems to arrange to have a signature scene with characters holding on to some large metal object that is about to fall some great distance . 
one thing that does not quite fit with the earlier films is just as grant discovers that raptors may be able to talk to each other , suddenly they seem to be doing it all the time . 
they did not appear to be conversing in the previous films . 
of course , these raptors look a little different also , so perhaps they are a different related species . 
not only are they more intelligent than in the past films , they are also more sympathetic . 
in this story they are not just killing machines , they have reasonable motives for what they do beyond nutrition . 
this time around they may be a little too anthropomorphized . 
each new film in the series introduces us to some new dinosaurs , of course . 
in this film a major threat is from a spinosaurus , not as common or as popularly known as a tyrannosaurus , but larger and presumably more nasty . 
it has a crocodile's head and the body that looks like a dimetrodon walking upright . 
perhaps as an economy measure or just to create a mood the visual effects team frequently obscures our view of the dinosaurs . 
sometimes they just move too fast to see . 
occasionally darkness or fog obscures our vision . 
a few times we get unconvincing matte shot , particularly of the laboratory . 
but there is less money on the screen in terms of dinosaur effects than in the two previous films . 
the musical score by don davis borrows heavily from john williams's score for the first film . 
joe johnston , who directs , already has to his credit two very good films i recommend the rocketeer and october sky . 
a team including alexander payne and jim taylor known for election writes the screenplay . 
the film they have made is a long way from great cinema , but it still is fun . 
if you get a thrill from seeing what look very much like live dinosaurs alive today , the film is for you . 
i rate it a 7 on the 0 to 10 scale and a low +2 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
just look back two years ago at the coen brothers' comedic gem the big lebowski , change the actors , take away the bowling alley , add a record store , and you've got high fidelity ( or maybe the other way around since nick hornby's novel high fidelity came first ) . 
either way , it's been done before , a trio of losers cracking jokes and complaining about their failed romances , yet it remains consistently funny . 
why is this ? 
maybe because you know your life is much better than this , you know these guys are more pathetic than you are , and you know its ok to laugh at them because they're fictional . 
director stephen frears , possibly not intentionally , has created a movie that makes you feel good about yourself and even that ostensibly no good uncle who watches television twenty four hours a day . 
when watching high fidelity , expect to laugh at someone else's pain , realize what you are laughing at , and then laugh again . 
i laughed at dick ( todd louiso ) , the shy , timorous , steve buscemi character of lebowski , who seems to know what he is talking about but either can't put it into words or is harshly rejected by his friends . 
i laughed at the john goodman character barry ( jack black ) , an exact replica of the comic bookstore owner on the simpsons , pudgy , egotistic , and obnoxious at the same time . 
and i laughed at rob ( john cusack ) , the jeff bridges type , whom the story revolves around . 
rob is the character easiest to relate to , but he is nothing like you at all . 
he uncontrollably cheats and lies , then is unable to realize why he can not hold onto a woman . 
and like his other miserable friends , pop music is where he inevitably goes for comfort . 
he spends the afternoons at his job quizzing his coworkers with obscure trivia or listening to new music and either deriding it or praising it . 
whatever human emotions the clash , aretha franklin , and bruce springsteen records hold , rob and co . 
grasp them and help fill voids in their social lives . 
rob has built an extensive collection in his record store as well as his home and he organizes them depending on what mood he is in . 
during this confused stage of his life in which the movie focuses on , rob is trying to cope with numerous rejections over the years by visiting past girlfriends and eventually asking why they dumped him . 
but these aren't any girlfriends ? these girls made the all time top five break ups in the history of rob ( rob's incessant use of lists show how pop music has played a major role in his life ) . 
the plot in three words is : women and music . 
the approach director stephen frears takes by having the charismatic rob speak directly to the camera is very effective . 
it gives high fidelity a quickly paced , informal structure , adjectives which perfectly parallel rob's own lifestyle . 
it also helps open the viewer's eyes as to how annoying barry is . 
jack black steals the show with a hilariously realistic performance as a total sleaze ball . 
just listening to him speak for five minutes makes the audience immediately sympathetic for rob , who must work with him every day of the week . 
what frears does so well is that he makes us feel sorry for rob while laughing at his misfortunes . 
john cusack plays his character convincingly but it is the strong supporting cast , consisting of big stars and character actors , that really defines rob . 
now instead of rob just talking to the camera , after he explains something , the remaining cast members physically and humorously create what he is trying to say . 
the only problem with high fidelity is that it doesn't end when it should have ended . 
instead the movie goes on for a torturous twenty minutes that seem a lot longer than that . 
also bruce springsteen is completely wasted in a brief cameo halfway through the movie . 
high fidelity is a cheerful , old fashioned comedy with a voluminous soundtrack and as many laughs . 
i just hope hollywood keeps creating losers on the big screen , they make everyone look and feel great . 
plot : a human space astronaut accidentally falls upon a planet ruled by apes . 
he is taken prisoner along with some other humans , and tries his best to escape his simian captors . 
oh yeah , and did i mention that the apes can talk ? 
kewl ! 
critique : despite this film not looking like a " tim burton movie " or its lead human character showing any signs of being a human being himself , i did find myself generally entertained throughout most of this film and do recommend it as fun , summer fare . 
although the thing that sets this movie apart from all others is definitely its incredible ape make-up jobs and characterizations . 
i mean , i was completely convinced that every single one of these apes was for real ! 
i also have to " give it up " to all of the actors inside the costumes , not only for waking up at three in the morning every day to get make-up slobbered all over them for 2-4 hours , but for coming through their costumed exteriors and selling us their characters on the screen as well . 
i especially enjoyed bonham carter's performance , who i believed to be the most developed character in the entire film ( human or ape ) and tim roth's bad guy , who chewed up scenery and oozed evil in every scene in which he took part . 
plot-wise , i liked the beginning of the film , the whole build-up once wahlberg got into the village , the escape and most of the fight scenes , but once things got out into the deserted area ( and the final battle sequence ) , i kinda lost a bit of my interest . 
i was much more intrigued by the interactions between the characters and the whole idea of " human beings as animals " then i was about the end battle sequence , which just seemed a bit too typical for this kind of film . 
i also hated the " kid " character who just got on my nerves and didn't really care for the way that the battle sequence was resolved ( i won't ruin it here but c'mon guys . . . you 
coulda thought of something a little more plausible than that , no ? ) . 
but the thing that held this movie back more than anything else was its lead character , his cold demeanor and the zero chemistry that he shared with either one of his inter-species love interests . 
this dude didn't seem to give a rat's ass about anyone but himself and i ultimately didn't really care about what happened to him either . 
now i'm not sure if this was the fault of the actor or the script , but the film suffered because of it . 
visually , the movie was also nice to look at ( especially the apes ! ) , but i definitely expected greater coolness from tim burton . 
the " surprise ending " that highlighted the original planet of the apes film back in 1968 , felt a little tacked on here , and despite being interesting , didn't really make all that much sense to me ( unless you look at it from a sequel point of view ) . 
so overall , i loved the whole " feel " of the planet , the apes that ruled it , the manner in which they treated the humans , screamed , shouted and reverted the entire evolution chain , but didn't appreciate the film's lack of human character development ( why was kris kristofferson even in this movie ? ) and the fact that its lead male and female humans were just plain boring . 
but i would still recommend this film as a fun , summer movie with laughs , creepiness and a really cool premise . 
ps : for anyone who has seen the original , i cannot believe that they didn't at least bring back the scene in which the lead human character ( in this case , mark wahlberg ) goes nuts at the world in which he's suddenly been thrust ( " this is a mad house ! " - 
type of thing ) . 
the guy in this film barely seems to be " put off " by the fact that he's surrounded by apes who can speak english ! ! 
where's joblo coming from ? 
the arrival ( 8/10 ) - battlefield earth ( 7/10 ) - godzilla ( 4/10 ) - instinct ( 6/10 ) - mission to mars ( 3/10 ) - pitch black ( 7/10 ) - ( 1968 ) planet of the apes ( 9/10 ) - sleepy hollow ( 8/10 ) 
disaster films have a tendency to be very formulated and very cliched . 
to see a disaster film with actual originality , or at least a decent plot twist , would definitely be a welcome surprise . 
unfortunately , folks , it's not likely . 
dante's peak is cliched , and at times corny , but also pretty decent . 
to be honest , i wasn't very interested in seeing this film , and word of mouth , as well as several reviews , didn't make it sound promising . 
so i was pleasantly surprised that to find that this movie wasn't bad at all . 
it's pretty run of the mill , but it's not something i would say is merely " ok " to watch . 
in case you don't know , dante's peak is about a volcano and the city which lives in it's shadow , dante's peak ( who would've guessed , eh ? ) . 
pierce brosnan plays the volcanologist sent to study the volcano and , perhaps more by hunch than actual scientific proof , is determined that the volcano will be arupting in the very near future . 
due to the lack of more substantial evidence , nobody warns the small town , and when they finally do , it's in the middle of the town meeting that the volcano finally blows . 
brosnan , all around good guy , will , of course , save the day . 
 . 
 . 
or at least the mayor of dante's peak ( linda hamilton ) . 
naturally the two will become infatuated with one another . 
 ( if you think i just ruined a plot development , you haven't seen very many movies ! ) 
there's also the virtually neccessary kids and pet dog to tug at your heart strings . 
and of course , the kids or the dog ( at least one or the other ) will do something heroic . 
 . 
 . 
but hey , i don't want to ruin all the surprises ! 
if there was a part of you that was hesitating seeing dante's peak merely because it was rumored to be a waste of time , i urge you to watch it and decide for yourself . 
it's not brain food , but it succeeds at what it's meant to be . 
 . 
 . 
an enjoyable , suspenseful movie about the fury mother nature can unleash ! 
in brief : best bleak comedy film since heathers . 
full of wonderful swipes at the fifteen minutes of fame mentality that feeds so much of modern american pop culture . 
go see it ! 
so , i prepared for this film by watching a moving interview on " hard copy " with pam smart , the new hampshire media teacher who was convicted of engineering the death of her husband back in the 1980's . 
 " hard copy " 's diane diamond asked smart what she thought about nicole kidman's fictionalized portrayal of her in the new film to die for . 
smart replied that she thought kidman's character came off as a dumb , vicious tramp and she thought that the publicity the new movie generates might just hurt her chances in her latest court appeal . 
 ( smart was convicted and given a life sentence for her part in the murder of her husband . ) 
smart's got a point . 
it wouldn't be the first time that the public took the better scripted and well-acted movie version of an event as the absolute truth over the duller and far less artistic real life version . 
however , given a choice between the mass media 'happening' of the real event and the fictionalized movie , i would definitely opt for the later . 
real murderers rarely have dialogue as witty as what buck henry has written for this movie and smart , while pretty and alluring , is no match for the cinematic charms of nicole kidman . 
to die for begins in a town called little hope , new hampshire , the archetypal dry and intellectually barren american suburb . 
the story concerns the ambitious suzanne stone and how she tackles the obstacles between her and her life long ambition of being 'on tv . ' 
of course , one of those little obstacles turns out to be her dull and unambitious husband larry , played by matt dillon . 
but , with a little imagination , some charm and raw sex appeal and a rather novel approach to junior achievement , our heroine manages to overcome the nay-sayers in her life , at least temporarily . 
kidman triumphs in the trashy role of suzanne . 
i have never really been all that fond of this actress but she shows a wonderful flair for comedy in this picture . 
her portrayal of the incredibly shallow and dumb femme fatale resonates . 
kidman knows a star-making role when she sees it and she plays the conscience-deprived suzanne as the ultimate career driven , post-feminist uber-temptress from hell . 
she is ably abetted by wonderfully demented comic dialogue , which kidman delivers in a unselfconsciously funny way . 
at one point suzanne is expounding on her knowledge of world events to her future husband and sister-in-law . 
 " you know , " she knowingly exclaims , " gorbachev would still be the leader of russia or whatever , if he had just had that ugly purplish thing removed from his head . " 
her husband beams at suzanne's profound knowledge of world politics and then proudly proclaims that this qualifies her to be the next barbara walters . 
this is very close to pop culture bashing heaven , folks . 
the other standout performance in the film is delivered by joaquin phoenix . 
he plays jimmy , a burned out teenager who becomes addicted to suzanne's sexual favors . 
kidman's character , vapid though she is , is a sort of suave beacon of success to jimmy and his lost friends russell and lydia , winningly portrayed by casey affleck and alison folland . 
phoenix looks like the very embodiment of gen-x slackerhood ( as envisioned by tabloid tv , of course ) . 
his jimmy has the dead eyes and demeanor of a kid who knows that he ain't going anywhere , ever . 
phoenix reacts to the sexy suzanne with a sort of obsessed amazement and he makes us believe that a loser character like jimmy really would be willing to kill for someone like suzanne , someone who actually noticed him . 
gus van sant ( drugstore cowboy , my own private idaho ) direction is first-rate . 
he keeps the pacing in this not-quite-thriller snapping along . 
van sant rightly keeps the focus of this movie on the amoral suzanne and doesn't stop to proselytize the audience about the rightness or wrongness of her actions . 
van sant trusts his material and trusts his audience to 'get it' without stopping to explain what is funny about this all-american story . 
the screenplay , by buck henry , is absolutely great and includes some of the best bleakly comic lines i've heard since heathers . 
henry's story is a blast against the shallowness of the american media and the mindlessness of fame , yet the screenplay delivers this sharp message by focusing on just a few characters . 
henry ably manages to avoid diluting his story by aiming at too many targets and the result is a crisp and funny mini-classic . 
danny elfman did the original music for this movie and he delivers another eccentric , loopy score that strongly echoes his themes for edward scissorhands . 
either film score would make wonderful background music for halloween trick-or-treat parties . 
all-in-all , a wonderful production , well worth your seven bucks ! 
to die for : a columbia pictures release directed by gus van sant . 
written by buck henry score by danny elfman starring nicole kidman , matt dillon , joachin phoenix based on the book by joyce maynard . 
rated r - for language and mature themes . 
 ( respect the r , not for under 14's ) rating ----- stars . 
go see it . 
i relish those rare opportunities when a talented screenwriter can make me feel like a fool . 
i spent the first hour of forces of nature slowly stewing over its grim attitude towards marriage , grousing to myself about its transparently planes , trains and automobiles plot machinations , and waiting for the inevitable hollywood denouement . 
this was a mass market romantic comedy , after all , a genre which has been taken over by teenagers and , even in its best days , worked hard to perpetuate the romance = infatuation paradigm . 
then marc lawrence did something wonderful , something which made the entire film click into place : he showed me a comic love story about grown-ups . 
it certainly didn't look that way from the outset , which introduces groom-to-be ben holmes ( ben affleck ) at his bachelor party , surrounded by friends and family whooping over his " last night of freedom . " 
ben loves his fiancee bridget ( maura tierney ) , but the doom-and-gloom pronouncements of everyone around him have him questioning the meaning of this 'till death do you part business . 
then , on an ill-fated flight from new york to his wedding in savannah , ben meets sarah lewis ( sandra bullock ) , a free-spirited woman with a string of failed careers and relationships behind her . 
as transportation troubles thwart them at every turn , ben and sarah begin a three-day southward journey in which their connection grows ever stronger , ben seeing in sarah the chances he's never taken and sarah seeing in ben the stability she's never had . 
forces of nature gets off to a solid enough start , setting up the characters and the situations with plenty of witty dialogue . 
ben is an ideal role for affleck's easy-going charm , and he plays the straight-laced straight man without forced exasperation . 
sandra bullock , for her part , is more loose and appealing than she has been in her last half-dozen films combined , avoiding her recent habit of playing any semblance of character depth as moping . 
the two performances -- part of a great top-to-bottom cast -- are effective and connected from the start , yet the script's apparent sympathy with the marital horror stories ben hears makes it difficult to enjoy the romance completely . 
lively and funny though it may be on a consistent basis , forces of nature leaves a bitter taste that feels like self-justification . 
the kicker is that those acidic anecdotes serve exactly the opposite purpose , leading to a surprisingly emotional resolution . 
forces of nature isn't about a man developing a fear of commitment ; it's about a man learning what commitment means _to him_ , learning that it's not what he thought it was . 
lawrence's script feints and dodges before reaching its happy ending , an ending which is happy because people make the choices that make the most sense . 
earlier scenes that might have felt like throwaways take on more resonance , and that bitter taste sweetens into something fresh and genuine . 
though one too many plot contrivances keep ben and sarah together through the film , and they do exchange the obligatory mutual character analysis of bickering screen couples , forces of nature wraps up so perfectly that you'll end up remembering the humor and the simple wisdom . 
that is , provided you're not put off by the ridiculously busy direction of bronwen hughes . 
for a brisk romantic comedy , forces of nature comes loaded with some of the most over-directed scenes of the year : teetering hand-held shots , why-not low or high angles , sweeping pans . 
occasionally the hyper-real approach works , with cinematographer elliot davis creating a world of fantasy romance ; far more often , hughes refuses to let a scene be what it is , covering it with flourishes so thick you almost can't find what's underneath . 
a script this smart and mature deserved a more restrained director , but even hughes' excesses can't spoil this unique concoction . 
forces of nature may restore your faith in romantic comedy as something with the power to enchant , something that can make you happy to be proved wrong when you expect a tale for and about adolescents . 
warning : this review contains some spoilers for the 1964 film " fail-safe . " 
if you haven't seen the film yet , proceed with caution . 
nutshell : a relevant , intelligent , suspenseful drama . 
still powerful today , even after the end of the cold war . 
-------------------- " fail-safe " ( usa , 1964 ) drama , 111 minutes 
screenplay by walter bernstein based on the novel by eugene burdick and harvey wheeler produced by max e . youngstein directed by sidney lumet 
review by jamahl epsicokhan -------------------- 
the most ironic aspect of nuclear war is that it doesn't have a winning side and a losing side . 
in a nuclear confrontation , everybody loses , and the aftereffects have devastating effects that impact the entire world--assuming the world survives . 
the idea--and perhaps the only real option--is to avoid war at all costs . 
this is the theme of sidney lumet's " fail-safe , " a fictional drama based on the novel by eugene burdick and harvey wheeler . 
 " fail-safe " takes place during the heart of the cold war ( the actual film was released two years after the cuban missile crisis ) , when the united states and the soviet union were in static discord over an issue that can be summarized in a single word : communism . 
the premise centers around a combination of accidents and operation flaws . 
five u . s . bombers carrying nuclear warheads are ordered to set a routine course for moscow after an unidentified aircraft is spotted heading toward america . 
the unidentified aircraft turns out to be a commercial airliner , but a mechanical failure strikes the military base that commands the bombers . 
suddenly out of contact , and with standing orders to remain on course until receiving new directives , the bomber pilots cannot be recalled , and they proceed to moscow with the intention of destroying it with a nuclear strike . 
a great deal of " fail-safe " 's plot follows various characters as they attempt to devise ways of stopping the u . s . bombers from reaching russia's borders--at any cost . 
the plot is compelling , and the story creates urgency and dread by painting the grimmest of worst case scenarios . 
the reality sets in quickly as one attempt to turn the bombers after another fails . 
general bogan ( frank overton ) , taking orders directly from the president of the united states himself ( henry fonda ) , is powerless--the fate of the world lies in the hands of an automated , pre-programmed system that may not be stoppable , simply because the creators of the war machines were too efficient in their task to make a no-win situation winnable . 
the events in " fail-safe " are fascinating because they're anything but predictable , but the real reason " fail-safe " works is because it understands more about nuclear war than what exists within the confines of its plot . 
a key ingredient to the film is its ability to create an ongoing polemic about nuclear war , communism , the cold war , and the united states' role in all of it . 
most of this is through the film's use of the character groeteschele ( walter matthau ) , an arrogant civilian theorist of nuclear weapons use who , incidentally , is on the president's advising staff for analyzing the statistical plausibility of waging a nuclear war . 
many of the film's most pointed messages arise from discussions where groeteschele is one of the key voices . 
early in the film , he hosts a dinner party where he explains the importance of " strategy " in a nuclear assault to " minimize " casualties . 
 " what's the difference between 60 million and 100 million dead ? " 
a guest asks impatiently . 
 " forty million , " groeteschele responds wryly . 
the problem with groeteschele's mindset is that he * believes * nuclear combat to be a viable method of war . 
the only difference to him between nuclear armageddon and conventional warfare is the raw data and the casualty totals . 
groeteschele realizes that these weapons can destroy the world several times over . 
yet his answer to the arms race is not to slow down and try to cool the situation off , as general black ( dan o'herlihy ) has often recommended . 
on the contrary--according to groeteschele , that would lead to russia having * more * nuclear weapons than the u . s . , which would clearly put america at a disadvantage . 
such a stance was perhaps the central paradox and misguided practice of the arms race . 
 " fail-safe " clearly sees it as one of the central issues of the cold war , and , likewise , it becomes a central theme in the film . 
why continue to build such machines of mass destruction while already possessing enough of them to destroy the world several times over ? 
is it wise ? 
is it even logical ? 
no , not really . 
although " fail-safe " is more about the issue of nuclear weapons than it is about the political ramifications of communism , there is a scene in the film that deals with communism in an intentionally superficial , one-sided sort of way . 
again , this is achieved through groeteschele , who is easily the film's most important character in terms of the larger-theme significance . 
in addition to providing the central " pro-nuclear war " voice that the film warns against , he also makes key remarks about communists that show just how much fear and resentment people of the period were prone to when it came to communism . 
the context the film uses suggests that this hatred was often glib . 
one of groeteschele's " logical " trains of thought ventures so far into fantasy theoretical prediction that it's merely absurd . 
he labels the average marxist an " unfeeling , calculating machine " that will do whatever it takes to preserve itself . 
groeteschele takes it so far as to say that if the u . s . drops the warhead on moscow , the soviets will * instantly * surrender , for to retaliate would invite counter-measures that would further destroy russia's home soil--which must be preserved at all costs . 
groeteschele seems to forget these people are human beings with emotions ; general black quickly reminds him that the soviets would attack out of revenge--as any normal person would . 
the irony here is groeteschele's own mechanical theorizing . 
he is so quick to judge the enemy that he doesn't even realize his own seemingly programmed thought patterns . 
once the film makes it evident that turning the u . s . bombers will be impossible , the question becomes what the * consequences * of destroying moscow will be . 
just how will the soviet union's leader react , and what can the president do to convey his best intentions ? 
 ( just * how * does one pass off the deaths of millions of people as an * mishap * ? ) 
with the help of his translator buck ( larry hagman ) , the president negotiates at length with the soviet leader , in scenes that prove amazingly taut and powerful in their simplicity , with lumet's long takes of fonda and hagman in the same frame , exchanging the dialog between the president and the soviet leader . 
without getting into too much detail , i will say that the compromise they ultimately reach is very costly , yet necessary and as sensible as possible under the circumstances . 
 ( that is , as sensible as a nuclear " incident " can probably be . ) 
it does accomplish what it must : it avoids an all-out war , something that simply isn't possible because of its all-too-real consequences . 
dramatically , the ending is quite powerful , and the use of o'herlihy's character as the symbolic " matador " ( providing a bookend to the film by ending the story while tying into his dream sequence from the film's opening ) , is particularly appropriate . 
 " fail-safe " is a production of a major hollywood studio ( released by columbia pictures ) , and it has the structure of a high-tension suspense thriller that one might expect from a hollywood film . 
nevertheless , under lumet's direction and walter bernstein's intelligent adaptation of burdick's and wheeler's novel , the film continues to have a lasting effect even after the events on screen have unfolded . 
the film often warns that the automation of war is something that may make nuclear holocaust an unintentional consequence of such mass arming . 
but it was the conscious , human choice to * initialize * this automatic arming that " fail-safe " also finds dangerous . 
in retrospect , the arms race seems to be one of the most puzzling exercises in futility of the century . 
it's just fortunate that both sides were finally able to come to their senses and slow down , rather than continuing groeteschele's dangerous approach of speeding up and causing a possible meltdown . 
andrew lloyd webber's musicals , preferably his early work with lyricist tim rice , present a musical which is totally unlike any musical before its time . 
webber and rice do not subscribe to the gaity of such musicals as " oklahoma ! , " or the slapstickness of shows like " a funny thing happened on the way to the forum . " 
they instead tackle hot issues from our past , and view them differently , and pack them together with redundant , catchy music , as well as thoughtful lyrics . 
like " jesus christ superstar , " which examined the rise and fall of jesus in his last days from a fame perspective ( in the cool tune " superstar , " a dead judas comes back from the dead to ask jesus why he didn't spread his message wider ) , " evita " takes an inventive stance on its topic , this time being the famed wife of argentinian dictator , juan per ? n , eva , who slept her way to the top and became famous chiefly because she got attention , much like the woman playing her : madonna ( although i think madonna did rise to the top for her musical talent , among other things ) . 
 " evita " deals with the rise and fall of eva per ? n , a woman who captured the heart of the nation after marrying juan ( jonathan pryce ) , then died at the young age of 33 , creating an international stir of mourning not unlike that of princess di ( the two do share a bit in common , although it wasn't like di slept to " the top " ) . 
webber and rice sure chose bizarre topics for their musicals , but they always have a point for doing it . 
here , they wish to expose her for what she is , but still show that despite all of her many drawbacks , her lying , and covering up for her fascist husband , but show that she was still a good woman with fairly good intentions , and her death was very sad . 
it's also a musical , with almost no words not unsung . 
the film plays like a rock opera , much like their " jesus christ superstar , " with many giant musical sequences just like the old musicals , even if they do possess very intelligent lyrics , which create not only an intellectually enlightening experience , but also a very entertaining one . 
after all , this is a musical , and webber's musicals never undermine this . 
they are a balance of energy and intellectual depth , walking on a fine line between the both , and never stumbling on either side . 
this is why the beginning of " evita " is kind of a let-down . 
okay , it is a let-down . 
i'm not saying the opening moments are bad , because they're pretty good . 
but what comes after is a lifeless , un-entertaining , and totally unrewarding sequence where she cons a singer ( jimmy nail ) into taking eva to buenos aires after a one-night stand . 
in the musical , it's a fun , energetic sequence , culiminating in the show stopper , " buenos aires , " which is also lifeless . 
then a punch is pulled as we see eva being screwed over by the singer , instead of her leaving him , where she ends up singing the sad tune , " another suitcase in another hall , " which was meant for a later character , screwed over by eva . 
the portrayal of eva in the beginning is too soft , seeming like parker and oliver stone , who adapted it for the screen , are afraid to present her for what she is , even while it's being narrated by a hater of eva's , the omnipotent ( antonio banderas ) , who presents her in a negative light . 
for a while , it looks like alan parker can't pull it off . 
however , the film pulls itself together in a flash , and after that song is over , and the giddily nihilistic song " goodbye and thank you , " where we see eva go through a long line of lovers who help her ascend , is magnificent , darkly comical , and just gleeful . 
from this point on , the film is hypnotic , satisfying , and satirical . 
no more punches are thrown , and the basic outline of the original musical are in tact . 
we see eva woo and marry juan , get him out of jail , rise to stardom , falter a bit , come back , and then gradually die of cancer ( i think it was because of cancer ) . 
more importantly , many of the themes from the musical carry on with this , as well as some filling-in-the-gaps reconnassaince work . 
juan , who is pretty underwritten in the musical , is given some extra scenes , and exposed as what he was for eva : an accessory . 
a muted scene where he tries to visit her respective room but is shunned allows us to learn more about juan , and understand his sadness more than we did before . 
>from the " goodbye and thank you " number on , the film shows eva trying to cover up for the horrible government by doing cheap and petty things which wooed a nation , and saved a government , even while it left the nation's people downtrodden . 
but despite this , the nation still loved eva , and when she slipped into death , the world mourned her because she was a star . 
that's when our narrator , ch ? , comes out to show that she wasn't the great woman she really was , and expose her fame . 
describing this character is difficult , mainly because he has no real realistic background ( he's said to be based on the revolutionary ch ? guevera , but the two probably could have never met , like they do in the film ) , but he serves as a perspective on eva , but even his perspective can't help us from feeling bad when eva dies a pathetic death . 
alan parker , no stranger to bizarre musicals ( he's done " fame , " " the committments , " " bugsy malone , " and " pink floyd the wall " - the latter which is absolutely brilliant ) , nails the film , exposing everything for what it is . 
we cry for evita at the end because we feel we should , by the way it is presented . 
his direction is manipulative for a reason : to show the mourning for what it is . 
and there is energy throughout , with lots of bright colors , and scenes which are cinematically entertaning , as well as enriching and deep , such as the balcony scene where she sings " don't cry for me , argentina , " and her death sequence , which is poignant becuase of how sad it is . 
madonna's golden globe winning performance is much like the movie : starts kinda downhill then goes up quickly , remaning there for the rest of the film . 
at the beginning , she looks like she's too busy concentrating on her singing to act , but she eventually gets it right , though never really getting the presence of , say , patti lupone ( who did the role in its american premiere back in the late 70s ) . 
her death , though , is brilliant . 
her singing could be better though . 
i know she took lessons to improve her range and all , but it still sounds like she's trying to hard . 
she sounds way too soft in several places where she should be comanding ( like . . . patti 
lupone - i heard her sing on an old " evita " cd , and you could just feel her stage presence without even seeing her ) . 
but it's generally very good , although not up to the brilliance the role really requires . 
antonio banderas , who is almost like a guilty pleasure these days ( i'm one of the few people who thinks he rocks ) , is extremely comanding in his performance , presenting a lovable narrator . 
his singing is very good , though nothing compared to the original , mandy patinkin . 
he does have a pretty good singing voice , and a great range . 
and jonathan pryce is pretty awesome , although very brief at times , in his role as juan , seeming to put on a poker face for his melancholy facade . 
although it gets off to a rocky start ( " rocky " 's polite for what it really is ) , it soon picks up and becomes a wonderully poignant musical . 
like the other musical released in '96 ( woody allen's " everyone says i love you " ) , it's a reminder that the hollywood musical may be dead , but it can come back every now and then for a brief performance . 
there's more to a quilt than fabric and thread--each patchwork design has its own unique story ( or stories ) to tell . 
in how to make an american quilt , the first hollywood release from australian director jocelyn moorhouse ( proof ) , we come to understand how the tales of the seven makers imbue their creation with passion and vitality . 
all the sorrows , joys , longings , sufferings , and loves of these women are sewn into their quilt and , as their bittersweet memories are given expression , one young woman applies these lessons of the past to her own uncertain future . 
motion pictures are filled with male bonding rituals ; how to make an american quilt presents a distinctly feminine alternative . 
the " quilting bee " consists of seven members : sisters gladys ( ann bancroft ) and hy ( ellen burstyn ) ; sophia ( lois smith ) , a woman known for frightening children ; emma ( jean simmons ) , the timid wife of a perpetually unfaithful man ; constance ( kate nelligan ) , who has been having an affair with emma's husband ; anna ( maya angelou ) , the leader of the group ; and marianna ( alfre woodard ) , anna's daughter . 
the project they're busy with is the wedding quilt for hy's granddaughter , finn ( winona ryder ) , who has just become engaged . 
she's spending the summer with hy and gladys , and away from her fiance , to decide whether a lifelong commitment is really what she wants , and whether it's better to marry a friend or a lover . 
one of the greatest pleasures of how to make an american quilt comes from watching an array of fine performances by an impressive ensemble cast . 
from winona ryder , ann bancroft , ellen burstyn , and maya angelou to minor players like rip torn , claire danes , and kate capshaw , this film is overflowing with realized talent . 
the performances are good enough , in fact , to cover up many of the script's weaknesses . 
how to make an american quilt is basically an unremarkable , if affecting , tale of love across the generations--a sort of truncated american version of the joy luck club , with a dash of fried green tomatoes added . 
there are probably too many characters . 
so , instead of really getting to know a few of them , we are presented with quick glimpses into a single defining event in each of their lives . 
we learn about the root of the smoldering resentment between gladys and hy , and are told the reasons why emma stays with her husband and sophia is so irascible . 
there are other episodes as well : the love of anna's life , marianna's soul mate , and a look at the reasons why constance entered into an affair with her friend's husband . 
the sum total of these tales is meant to provide the framework for finn's story : whether to go forward with her marriage or dally with a hunky stranger . 
there is no emotional epiphany in how to make an american quilt . 
the stories are all well-told , but it's difficult to really connect with the characters--their moments pass so quickly . 
while we certainly feel something for each of the eight principals , our emotional investment is tenuous . 
there isn't enough depth to pull the viewer in all the way , and many of the personalities and relationships feel half- formed , like a quilt with patches missing . 
to put it bluntly , while i enjoyed watching this film , it didn't " do much " for me . 
on the whole , how to make an american quilt is a nicely-understated drama that has a lot to say about love , passion , and monogamy in relationships . 
finn's segment is by far the most compelling , because she's the focal point : her actions are shaped by everyone else's experiences . 
the other patches of this american quilt are successful only to varying degrees . 
if there's a disappointment here , it's that the script doesn't have more resonance , but the privilege of seeing such a fine cast in top form allows a viewer to enjoy this picture even if the story is somewhat conventional . 
mimi leder is probably best known for her stunning work as a director of the hit tv-show er . 
her mast famous episode , " love's labour lost " , dealt with the ordeal of doctor mark greene as he tried his best to save the life of a pregnant mother and her child . 
the way she moved the camera and created tension throughout every scene was amazing . 
there was more excitement and adrenaline rushed suspense than just about any of hollywood's big blockbuster movies . 
so it's only natural that leder would get to direct her very own hollywood blockbuster . 
and i have to say , after a shaky beginning , she does not disappoint . 
peacemaker deals with the theft of nuclear weapons by terrorists , which is obviously nothing new . 
the first half hour goes into detail , way too much detail , about how the weapons are stolen . 
despite a few good images , including a train collision and a very impressive explosion , none of this was very coherent . 
it's long and drawn out , and i would have settled with a more implausible beginning that would have moved the story along better . 
once george clooney and nicole kidman enter the picture , it begins to take off . 
george clooney is an air force colonel with connections all over the world . 
he has a nice sarcastic wit and the rough edges that you expect from most clooney characters . 
nicole kidman is head of a white house team on weapons smuggling . 
there is the usual flirtatious banter between the two , but that is dispensed with quickly . 
the story takes clooney and kidman across the globe , trying to figure out who has the weapons and where they are going with them . clooney 
goes through bouts of sarcasm , frustration , determination , and revenge while kidman works against her own insecurity and self-doubt . 
this is when leder starts to show her true stuff . 
she starts us off with a nifty little car chase as an appetizer . 
then we get clooney doing heroics in and out of a helicopter . 
then that leads us to the brilliant final showdown on new york city's crowded streets , and a madman with a nuke walking among them . 
mimi leder is a natural at creating suspense . 
she reminds me of wolfgang petersen in her ability to make the most routine action sequences exciting and breathtaking . 
nicole kidman is an intelligent female action hero . 
you're not gonna find her falling down so clooney can come back to save her . 
george clooney is a real movie star . 
many of you may have hated him as batman , but this guy is for real . 
he has a natural screen presence , and an ingratiating personality . 
he'll be around for a while . 
dreamworks is off to a satisfying start with peacemaker . 
i have to say it . 
tim burton's retelling of planet of the apes is more fun than a barrel of monkeys . 
ok , that's off my chest . 
no more monkey puns , i promise . 
seriously , though , planet of the apes is one rip-roarin' summer outing , filled with thrills , action , adventure , wit and bits of funny ( dare i say , monkey ) business . 
i know , i know , i promised . 
and for those film buffs who are fond of the original , burton's version includes a couple tips of the hat to that movie . 
mark wahlberg stars as capt . leo davidson , a deep-space pilot whose ship gets drawn into a magnetic field and hurled into the future . 
he crash lands on a planet where apes are the dominant species and humans are hunted , captured and sold into slavery . 
despite being darker than the original , burton's film is not as heavy handed nor as sanctimonious . 
some of the movie's flashes of humor are surreal as well as typically burton : an organ-grinder ape with a midget or an elderly ape taking off a wig and removing false teeth as he prepares for bed . 
then there are the parents who buy a little girl as a pet for there young daughter . 
the seller advises the parents to get rid of the girl before she reaches puberty : " one thing you don't want in your house is a human teen-ager , " he says . 
you don't have to be an ape to realize the truth in that statement . 
touches such as these are what stamps this movie with burton's brand . 
lines that hearken back to the original movie are sprinkled throughout : the first words spoken by an ape to davidson as the astronaut is regaining consciousness and grabs the simian's foot to try righting himself are : " take your stinking hand off of me , you damned , dirty human . " 
anyone familiar with the first version of the film will , of course , recognize the irony in that piece of dialogue . 
another of burton's in-jokes is to have charlton heston , star of the original , play the chimpanzee father of tim roth's gen . thade . 
the young chimp goes to visit his dying father . 
both have one thing in common , a hatred of humans . 
with his dying breath , the elder spews out his vile : " damn them , damn them all to hell , " he says before expiring . 
that is the famous line heston's taylor shouted at the conclusion of the original after discovering the planet's terrible secret . 
the performances throughout are top-notch . 
wahlberg plays davidson not as some gung-ho hero , but as a confused and somewhat frightened explorer who only wants to return home . 
he is reluctant to lead the human rebellion ; his only objective being to find a way off this upside-down planet . 
this hesitation is what makes his character believable and vulnerable . 
roth is ferocious , cunning , cruel and savage as the fascist chimp who wants to rid his planet of all vestiges of humanity . 
he leaps and bounds as if he had springs on his feet . 
it is a masterful turn . 
helena bonham carter is ari , the chimp who believes that apes and humans can live in peace and as equals . 
hers is a smart , compassionate characterization . 
michael clarke duncan is big and brutal as attar the gorilla aid to thade who blindly follows his leader until his faith is shaken . 
a fine comic outing is given by paul giamatti as limbo , the ape slave trader making a living off the misery of the humans he captures . 
as the battle between apes and humans looms , the cowardly limbo pleads , " can't we all just get along , " echoing the words of rodney king . 
much of the success of planet of the apes goes to burton's technical crew , especially production designer rick heinrichs and the legendary rick baker who created the ape makeup . 
burton's musical collaborator , danny elfman , provides another fine score , though it is not as memorable as his work on batman or sleepy hollow . 
the movie's only letdown comes at the very end where burton tries to outshock the finale from the 1968 original . 
he comes close , but falls short . 
otherwise , planet of the apes is what a summer movie should be : an amusement park ride filled with lots of action , stunts and a few laughs . 
this is one feature in which the expectations lived up to the pre-release hype . 
urban legend surprised me . 
based on the last few films the genre has produced ( including but not exclusive to the likes of i know what you did last summer , disturbing behavior and the disappointing halloween : h20 ) , i was positive that i was in store for another mildly entertaining but silly and ultimately boring rehash of the scream phenomena . 
thankfully , legend rose above it's soggy premise to become not only a hip , scary and stylish entertainment , but also what will probably become one of the best films of the year . 
you're all familiar with the plot ; a bunch of overly horny teenagers get systematically slaughtered by a masked maniac who's identity is not revealed until the closing moments of the film when it turns out to be , you guessed it ; everybody's favorite veteran of the whodunit flicks . . . the 
only person you didn't suspect ! 
however , just because legend doesn't really break any new ground as far as literary or even technical achievements go does not mean that it can't qualify as first-class entertainment . 
it was , believe it or not , one of the funnest times i've had at the movies all year . 
the thing is , i'm not really sure what made this particular stab ( pardon the pun ) at the genre seem so fresh and alive . 
maybe it was the above-par performances by the movie's two leads ( jared leto and " cybil " actress alicia witt ) . 
or , it could have been the on- target direction by jamie blanks . 
more likely , though , it was because of the inspired premise . 
i don't think i need to tell you that a killer hacking people up ala urban folklore is much more frightening than a killer fisherman . 
urban legend begins with a sequence that reminded me of the classic scream opener , not so much in plotting as in attention to detail that makes for an absolutely chilling teaser for the rest of the film . 
a pretty young coed is driving down a deserted road when ( gasp ! ) a gas problem ( hee-hee ) forces her to stop at an equally deserted gas station for a refill . 
one problem , though . 
would you want to stop at a station run by brad dourif ? 
i thought not . 
predictably , the attendant ends up coaxing her into the main building to sort out a problem with the credit card company . 
it's odd , though , when you pick up a phone to realize that nobody's on the other line . 
naturally , the potential victim escapes into her car and drives off . 
and the when we least expect it . . . whack ! ! ! 
a decapitation . 
it turns out that the creepy looking attendant was just trying to warn her about the maniac in the back seat of the car . 
so who is it this time ? 
the obvious candidate is the slightly off-kilter professor at the college the girl went to ( none other than freddy kruger himself , robert englund ) , who teaches a class on urban legends . 
a-ha . 
or could it be the fame-hungry local journalist ( leto ) looking for a meaty story to put on his resume ? 
like all movies of this nature , one of the chief pleasures is trying to guess whodunit . 
and it turns out to be , of course , the one you didn't suspect . 
i'm not going to pretend urban legend is anything more than it is , but i must give credit where credit is due . 
and this flick definitely deserves credit for being what not many other recent horror films have been . . . fun . 
 * complimentary movie ticket courtesy of valley cinemas in lodi , ca 
capsule : the verma family is having a wedding and all the relatives will come for the multi-day festivities . 
mira nair's film is pleasant enough with a little human drama , a few family secrets , some sadness and some happiness . 
you have seen it all before , but perhaps not from india . 
the photography is colorful and the music is very agreeable . 
 , low +2 ( -4 to +4 ) 
mira nair previously directed salaam bombay and mississippi masala . 
her newest film , written by sabrina dhawan , is very similar to previous films like betsy's wedding but it is set in new delhi . 
a wealthy family is having a wedding . 
an indian wedding is a multi-day affair as much a family reunion as a nuptial . 
even more than in the us , it is an excuse for a lavish and extravagant family get-together . 
the film shows us what the family does together and at the same time follows several family members' individual story lines . 
aditi verma is marrying hemant , an indian engineer working in the us . 
she had previously had a relationship with vikram , her supervisor . 
latit , her father ( played by naseeruddin shah ) , is juggling many problems , not the least of which is worrying about the caterer has hired pk dubey . 
dubey is a rather eccentric man with a taste for eating the marigolds he uses for decoration . 
even dubey will soon be romantically entangled when he becomes interested in alice , one of the family servants . 
several family members arrive giving rise to several plotlines involving sex , family secrets , or both . 
there are heartbreaks and there are people falling in love . 
some of the subjects covered are probably near taboo for indian films . 
western audiences will appreciate a look at unfamiliar indian customs like women painting their hands with henna . 
on the other hand it was not clear ( to me at least ) if scenes like the family singing together are typical of indian culture or if they are a convention of indian musical films . 
this seems a particularly westernized family with the father wearing american designer sweaters and the family speaking mostly english . 
the latter will , however , help with an international release . 
sabrina dhawan's screenplay is vibrant with witty dialog . 
we have seen films with plotting very much like this , but the indian setting makes a great deal of difference . 
director mira nair calls the film an affirmation of life . 
i rate it a 7 on the 0 to 10 scale and a low +2 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
the love for family is one of the strongest driving forces in any man's life , especially for those who have fostered their family under precarious circumstances . 
thematically in cinema , love for family has been used frequently and emphatically to highlight more abstract aspects of characters ; it is rare , however , for it to develop as outstandingly as it does in roberto benigni's neo-classic drama , life is beautiful . 
through a central cast of father , mother , and son , benigni demonstrates the wonderful , undying love that a family shares in the best of times and the worst of times . 
life * is * beautiful for guido orefice ( roberto benigni , directing himself here for the sixth time in his career ) , an italian jew , master con man , and aspiring waiter extraordinaire . 
living in 1930's italy , he lives a carefree life of good fortune ; it is made even better when he happens upon a pretty schoolteacher named dora ( nicoletta braschi ) . 
although dora is already engaged , guido manages to sweep her off her feet and persuades her to marry him instead ; the two have a child named joshua ( giorgio cantarini ) . 
unfortunately for the happy family , the third reich and its nazi minions occupy italy and imprison all jews in work camps . 
it is after the movie takes this dramatic turn that the movie's theme of family love becomes the strongest . 
although prior to this turning point benigni plays guido with a sort of goofy charm , he relaxes the role to ensure his son's happiness . 
now , instead of awkwardly seducing the sweet dora , he constantly reassures his son that everything will be all right . 
benigni's performance is truly a well-rounded one , and certainly one of the more fluid turns all year . 
the supports are all strong as well , but the movie truly excels in its script . 
life is beautiful is a self-proclaimed fable , one which tells its story in grand , two-part fashion . 
in certain parts it manages to sink to the level of a " saturday night live " spinoff -- a number of humorous skits connected by a token plot -- but in the movie's second half the script's circular nature becomes admirably obvious . 
characters make reprise appearances in fine form , and certain events which are intially curious become critically linked to the plot's outcome . 
in all , fans of foreign film will see this as a memorable motion picture , and novice movie-watchers may take this opportunity to see their first " artsy " film . 
life is beautiful is an artsy movie by convention but easily accessible to everyone , and above all is a fine thematic picture . 
while watching wes anderson's rushmore , it may be surprising to think that the role of max fischer , the film's anti-hero , was not written with jason schwartzman in mind . 
the young actor , making his film debut as a 15 year old student at the exclusive rushmore academy is so perfect in the role that it comes as a shock that anderson auditioned some two thousand other prospective stars before discovering schwarztman . 
schwartzman plays max , a student who is more interested in his extra-curricular activities ( such as writing edgy plays like " serpico " and being president of the rushmore beekeepers ) but sees his grades suffer as a result . 
on the brink of being thrown out , he lands himself in even more hot water when he falls for first grade teacher rosemary cross ( olivia williams ) and enlists the help of millionaire acquaintance herman blume ( the great bill murray ) to build an aquarium ( on rushmore's baseball field ) in her honour . 
unfortunately for everyone involved , blume finds that he has feelings for miss cross as well , which gets in the way of max's plans to woo her . 
max is one of the best-written characters we've yet seen in the 90s , and schwartzman plays him to perfection in one of the finest comedy performances ever given by someone of his age . 
as everyone else has probably already pointed out , he is reminiscent of a young dustin hoffman ( although i was reminded more of paul from " the wonder years " , from a visual standpoint , at least ) . 
hopefully , if he avoids typecasting as weird , quirky loner-types he should earn himself a good career . 
bill murray is his equal as blume , displaying a depth we haven't yet seen from him . 
while this isn't his best performance ( that honour goes to groundhog day ) he is still terrific here . 
williams isn't given much to do except react to schwartzman and murray , but still does fine work . 
rushmore seems to go just a little too long but , while it isn't a perfect film , it is a definate must-see for anyone who wants to see that rarity , an american coming-of-age film that actually works well without an excessive amount of sentimentality . 
anderson has created a modern classic with a star who should , with any luck , rise to even greater success . 
no , i did not read the novel by thomas hardy , " jude the obscure , " his final novel ( final because this film created such an outrage that he never wrote again - see : i did do some research on it ) about a man who is plagued with bad luck throughout his entire life . 
but , after watching the movie , i can imagine how incredibly depressing it is . 
 " jude " is a satirical film from start to finish about society's way of spitting out and chewing up those unwanted in its system , but what's remarkable is how timeless this film is . 
the film takes place in the late 19th century ( or early 20th - wasn't really sure ) , but its story could even be retold today in modern form , although it'd be kinda different ( a given ) . 
it tells the story of jude ( christopher eccleston - the psychotic accountant from " shallow grave " ) - a simple , dim-witted young man with big dreams . 
in its bleak , foreboding opening , shot in grainy black and white , he gets a lesson from phillotson ( liam cunningham ) , his teacher : as they stand upon a mountain , looking upon a city in the distance , he says all you have to do is work hard and you can have anything in the world . 
after marrying and divorcing an immature woman named arabella ( rachel griffiths ) because they frolicked in the hay ( literally ) but did not ultimately share anything in common , he moves away to a town with a giant university , with a chance to learn more , and get ahead in life . 
taking a welding job , he works hard while studying constantly for his college bars , reciting latin over and over again , and training himself . 
but when he sends his application for the school in , he is bluntly told to just remain a worker . 
another reason for going to this town was because someone in his family lives there : sue ( kate winslet ) , his cousin and a very intelligent but kinda mischevious young woman who wants to be a school teacher . 
she and jude click eventually and become very endearing friends , so much that when she spends the night at his flat after running from her apprentice teacher job ( for none other than phillotson at the local school ) , there are rumors that she and jude did some nasty business ( nudge nudge ) . 
several twists turn in the storyline , and eventually jude and sue do do some nasty business ( an interesting scene , to say the least . . . ) , and are soon born into a controversial non-wedlock , as she eventually gives birth to their baby , and jude inherits his son from arabella , who turns up again after awhile . 
because they aren't married , and because they're cousins , they run into problems with every place they go to , carrying around two children everywhere , and only staying in lodges for a very brief period of time , then moving on . 
if you didn't think this was harsh enough , wait till you see what happens later on . . . 
the sad truth is that jude is one of the miserable people who can never get any luck in this world . 
he will never gain any true happiness , and any happiness that happens to him will be fleeting , and will probably bring more horrible instances to his life . 
part of it is his fault - he's too optimistic , and too gullible . 
but society has a way of taking these people , and hurting them until their death . 
the ending of " jude " is bleak because it has to be ( although i hear the ending of the novel is even worse - guess i'll have to read it now ) . 
 " jude " offers a satirical view on society's cruelties , but shows no way of curing this , and thank heavens it doesn't . 
there's no way to relinquish the selfishness of society , and any solution would be too small to cure such a mass problem . 
satire has always been one of the few ways of changing certain people's minds , and that's what " jude " is . 
sure , it's one hell of a downer , but it needs to be . 
the film also posesses two fantastic performances from its two leads , and some good supporting work along with it . 
christopher eccleston ( slightly resembling richard edson with his new look and dumb expression ) plays jude wonderfully , sometimes bringing a big dumb smile to his face , and making him kind of child-like at other times . 
kate winslet , in a pre- " titanic " performance , is brilliant , nailing every psyche of her character , and creating someone who's troubled but very seductive with her personality . 
kate may be the best actress in her age group ( if you don't believe me , see " titanic , " branagh's " hamlet , " " sense and sensibility , " and " heavenly creatures , " the latter one being my favorite performance of hers ) . 
in the supporting roles , liam cunningham is a wonderfully flawed teacher , exposing all his bad parts , but ultimately being a pretty good person ; and rachel griffiths is wonderfully immature as jude's wife , whom he never divorces . 
 " jude " moves at a very slow pace , and keeps taunting its viewers with chances of happiness for its protagonists , which would drive some people nuts . 
but those who appreciate good social commentary with their films , no matter how slow or downright depressing they are ( this one is both ) will appreciate " jude , " though i doubt anyone truly enjoys it . 
quaid stars as a man who has taken up the proffesion of dragonslayer after he feels he is betrayed by a dragon early in the movie . 
he runs into the last dragon in existence , and there is a genuinely amusing battle between the two which results in a standoff where quaid is in the dragons mouth , but has his sword pointed at the dragons brain . 
eventually , they decide to call a truce , and they work out a deal . 
since he is the last dragon , he will pretend to die and quaid will be able to get paid for it . 
their scam works at first , until they come to a town without any money . 
instead the town sacrifices a girl to the dragon , but of course , draco is a nice droagon , so he won't eat her . there is however a very amusing scene where draco is hitting on the young girl . 
of course , as you can probably tell by the plot , this is a silly movie , but it does know when to take itself seriously at the right times , unlike eddie , which was serious all the time . 
you could probably call this a medieval comedy , because there are more laughs here than in eddie and spy hard combined . 
dennis quaid makes a fine hero . 
pete posthlewaite provides some ghreat comedy as a monk who journeys with them . 
dina meyer is appealing as the sacrificed girl . 
but lets face it , the movie is really about the dragon , and what an amazing creation he is . 
connery's voice and ilm team up to provide us with a truly magnificent dragon . 
so , if you are going to see this movie for a strong hard core medieval epic , you are going to the wrong movie . 
if you are going because of the dragon , you will not be dissapointed , and you will be provided with plenty of laughs that smooth out the boring parts in the script . 
it has been 20 years since a terrence malick film hit theaters . 
his new film , the thin red line , is a strange , beautiful , enigmatic mess of a movie . 
the first thing that jumps out to one when they see the advertisements for this film is the huge cast . 
it is filled with above-the-title stars . 
the cast , for the most part , gives great performances . 
john travolta , whose role is nothing more than a cameo , seems not to have attacked his performance with that much verve . 
george clooney , whose role became a cameo in editing , gives a strange performance . 
one wonders if he knew that his performance would become the object of ridicule through a character's narration . 
the rest of the cast , especially nick nolte and elias koteas , are unambiguously fantastic . 
these actors ( and they are , with two exceptions , men ) were lured by the name of malick . 
terrence malick is a cinematic legend . 
he has often been called " the j . d . salinger of cinema . " 
his two previous films , badlands and days of heaven , are spectacularly beautiful and obscure motion pictures . 
after he made them , he disappeared for 20 years . 
this film marks his return . 
what he's made with the thin red line is a film that seems less concerned with plot than with the emotion of the moment . 
the narration which fills the film ( and perplexes many ) not only lets us hear the narrators ( the characters themselves ) pontificate , but also lets us hear such of-the-moment thoughts as " i'm scared . " 
the rather simple plot of the thin red line is used as a canvas on which many stories are painted . 
the plot couldly simply be boiled down to an assault on a hill . 
a plot synopsis for the thin red line is difficult , because the story is fractured . 
many stories are here , from the clash between the lieutenant ( elias koteas ) and the savage colonel ( a voracious nick nolte ) to the private ( ben chaplin ) who uses his love for the woman he left behind to keep him going . 
the fracturing of the story is ultimately a fault . 
it is as if an artist spent an incredible amount of time artfully sculpting tiny statues and then threw them into a box , shook the box , and poured the results onto a table . 
this basically creates a mess , but the stories can be discerned and enjoyed . 
i'm not declaring that the film has no structure . 
while saving private ryan used warfare to bookend the plot , malick uses reflection and glorious shots of nature to bookend about 90 minutes of combat . 
the battles in the thin red line are astonishing and display a mastery of filmmaking . 
the astounding cinematography in this film must also be given notice . 
this film uses color and light in such a fantastic way , that it will be sad to see it degraded when it has to bee transferred to video . 
ultimately , malick has crafted a film that is a movie that enjoys looking through the treetops more than regarding the war that rages below them . 
the film is filled with nature photography and the regarding of nature . 
while some have said that the anti-war message and pro-nature tubthumping was juvenile , it was done with so much complexity and thought , that it cannot ever honestly be called childish . 
after seeing the thin red line , i was haunted by it and am quite ready to see it again . 
 " stuart little " is one of the best family films to come out this year . 
it's a cute , funny and very good-natured film that has nothing for parents to squirm over except a few mild cusswords . 
though i read the book a long time ago and i really do not remember what it was about , i do know that this film does not disappoint . 
finally a movie gets released that is as good as the trailer makes it to be , with a few surprising twists , some very funny moments , and a few sentimental moments all mixed in to one great little movie . 
stuart little is a mouse . 
he has finally gotten a new home after being put up for adoption , he now lives with the littles . 
a nice little ( no pun intended ) family that lives in their apartment next to central park in new york city . 
they have a little boy george ( played by the adorable jonathan lipnicki ) and now they have a new son . 
at first stuart takes a while but he finally adjusts to being part of the family and even getting along with the pet cat . 
george doesn't take too well to having a mouse for a brother at first , but once the two play together they instantly bond . 
stuart however is missing something , and he wants to know who his real parents are . 
the littles try and find his parents and one day they show up on the doorstep wanting stuart back . 
hesitating the littles know what's best for stuart and so does snowball the pet cat , he and his friends try to get stuart but in the end we find out the truth about stuart's past ending up to a sentimental and very heart-warming ending . 
one thing i noticed about the film instantly was the fantastic special effects . 
just like in " star wars : episode 1--the phantom menace " stuart little and his family are all computer generated and they look fantastically real . 
from the detail of their fur , to the detail of the way the walk ; the special effects team put a lot of time and effort on this $90 million dollar film and it shows . 
another movie that this has in common with is " babe " with it's talking animals and people understanding them . 
it has a family friendly atmosphere and is never really scary or suspenseful enough to even scare the youngest of kids . 
michael j . fox does the voice of stuart himself and just like in the " homeward bound " movies does a fantastic job and brings more out of stuart than anyone else could . 
he to me fits the character perfectly and ends up making stuart even more lovable . 
another gem of the film is nathan lane as snowball . 
when he was timon in 1994's " the lion king " i would have sworn he was a comedian , and now in " stuart little " he brings the most out of snowball and makes him one of those characters we love to dislike . 
for the human actors geena davis who never gives a bad performance does not disappoint here as well . 
she fits nicely in her character and there is a good chemistry between her and hugh laurie who plays mr . little . 
both make us believe they are happily in love and married and jonathan lipnicki as their song is even more adorable than he was in 1996's " jerry maguire " . 
even though stuart little is completely cgi , the human characters and stuart have a nice chemistry together and even makes us believe they really do care for each other . 
 " stuart little " is ideal family entertainment for this holiday season and will not disappoint youngsters or adults for that matter . 
we get entertainment , laughs , cries and more fun at the movies this season than probably any other movie . 
its nice to see a pg rated movie out at christmas that everyone can see . 
even though it has a $90 million dollar budget i'm sure it will make over that or just below it respectively . 
for all you parents out there trying to find a good family movie , i have yet to see bicentennial man as i write this but as far as i know " stuart little " and " toy story 2 " are by far the best family films this year . 
a winner . ? 
as with his other stateside releases , jackie chan's latest chopsocky vehicle , mr . nice guy , is contrived , blockheaded , and lacking in narrative logic . 
but also like those other films , it is a highly enjoyable ride . 
once again , chan's screenwriters ( here edward tang and fibe ma ) have taken the easy way out and named their star's character simply jackie , with no last name . 
this jackie is a world-class chef who co-hosts a popular cooking show on australian television . 
of course , jackie also happens to be a talented martial artist , and these skills come in handy when he becomes involved in an ambitious reporter's ( gabrielle fitzpatrick ) expose of a drug dealing ring . 
other plot details , involving a videotape and a biker gang , are irrelevant ; in fact , as is the case with most chan films , the plot itself is just about irrelevant . 
the sole purpose of mr . nice guy's existence are chan's comic fight scenes , and those here do not disappoint . 
director samo hung ( who has a cameo role ) , a longtime collaborator of chan's , does not waste any time putting chan in action , diving head-on into a wild chase/fight/shootout after a brief cooking show prologue . 
other impressive set pieces follow , most notably a chase in a mall , which directly leads to some frenzied , if cliched ( can you say fruit cart ? ) , business involving a runaway carriage ; and an extended late-film sequence at a construction site , in which a hilarious pursuit through a maze of blue doors culminates in some exciting fights involving boards , cement mixers , and a deadly buzzsaw . 
none of the action sequences in mr . nice guy are as spectacular as supercop's thrilling helicopter-train finale or rumble in the bronx's daring leap between two buildings ; nor is anything as inventive as the ladder fight or air tunnel climax in first strike and operation condor , respectively . 
but the action delivers , even if the energy peters out before the film's end ( the finale , as spectacular as it is , is a letdown for fans of chan's athletic prowess ) . 
filmed almost entirely in english ( even so , the voices of some english-speaking actors are laughably dubbed ) , mr . nice guy hints at jackie chan's latest transition to hollywood productions ( he made ill-fated attempts with 1980's the big brawl and 1985's the protector ) ; next in the pipeline is rush hour , a stateside production co-starring chris tucker . 
hopefully that film will be a mere diversion in tinseltown , and chan will continue with exuberant hong kong productions such as mr . nice guy , for his unique charm and reckless abandon are sure to be diluted by american hands , much like they have been before . 
the premise of wag the dog is so simple that it's adequately explained by the commercials . 
with 11 days to go until the election , the president ( who we never see ) calls in political dirty-tricks artist robert deniro to distract attention from a burgeoning sex scandal . 
deniro enlists hollywood producer dustin hoffman to produce a " pageant " , a phony war against albania , fought on the blue screens of hollywood and the recording studios of nashville , with woody harrelson as the reluctant , psychotic hero . 
and if there wasn't anything more to the movie than this , it would be a second-rate heist comedy at best , enlivened by great actors -- like sneakers goes to washington . 
 ( a heist comedy ? 
yup . 
deniro and hoffman are " stealing " the election , so to speak , and the movie is more about how they do it -- and the fun they have doing it -- than anything else . ) 
wag the dog succeeds because it's based one great truth : the american people are stupid . 
ok , maybe it's not " love thy neighbor as thyself " or even " two plus two makes four " , but a truth nonetheless . 
 ( any average person who thinks that they're really smart about the two things this movie satirizes -- moviemaking and the political process -- is invited , nay , challenged , to spend a week either watching a movie actually being made or 48 hours straight watching c-span when the house is in session . ) 
and because we're so utterly , predictably stupid , hollywood knows that a certain percentage of us will go see hard rain or magoo , washington knows that we won't notice a few million dollars spent here and there on porno art grants and cigar subsidies -- and deniro's character knows that american geography skills are so weak that we won't be able to locate albania on the map . 
the beauty of wag the dog is that it isn't a light , meaningless comedy about politics ( like speechless , the michael keaton - geena davis picture ) or from the level of light-hearted politcal satire to near-greatness . 
nor is it a hard-edged cynical look at the manner in which a morally-deprived , ethically challenged baby-boomer connives his sleazy way into the white house ( like primary colors -- and yes , i am a little disappointed in the way the last two elections turned out , thanks for asking ) . 
instead , david mamet's script strikes that delicate balance between comedy and cynicism needed for satire . 
it does this by keeping us in a fantasy world where most of the schemers' schemes come off beautifully , and fail only in entertaining and humorous fashion . 
deniro is playing a variation on his al capone character from the untouchables , without any of the violent rages . 
it's all : " what do i love ? 
what is it that brings me joy ? 
baseball , " minus the savage bloody beating with the bat . 
he threatens a lot of people , mind you , but he's doing it in a very nice , polite way . 
it's a very mellow , restrained performance , which fits in with the air of gamesmanship in the script . 
hoffman , on the other hand , is giddy , exuberant and joyous . 
this kind of thing is what his character lives for , and he's so excited that he can't even shut up . 
even on the edge of disaster , he's bright-eyed ( behind oddly tinted sunglasses ) and positive . 
insiders note that he's basing his character on some powerful-but-anonymous producer -- which may or may not be true , but hoffman still exudes the kind of lets-put-on-a-show electricity that you figure a producer needs to have . 
the best part and the most frustrating part of wag the dog is in the supporting cast . 
the characters are so well drawn and so well acted that we want to see more of them , listen to them talk in that wised-up mamet dialogue , get to know them better -- which we don't . 
anne heche , is dead-bang-on in her portrayal of a political press aide -- cool and composed on the outside , panicked and frenzied on the outside . 
denis leary ( one of my favorite actors -- see the ref ) is the " fad king " , who handles the profitable " back-end " -- t-shirt tie ins and shoe contracts and other creative , innovative ways to separate a fool from his money . 
they could make a whole movie , just about the fad king , and i'd go see it . 
willie nelson and merle haggard handle the musical end of things fabulously , from the upbeat gospel chorus theme song , to the weepy country waltz , to the hilarious " ballad of the green berets " parody . 
woody harrelson has a brief , but memorable part as the overmedicated " hero " of the albanian conflict . 
craig t . nelson , as the opposition candidate , and the ever-reliable william h . macy , as a wacky cia agent , are given surprisingly short shrift . 
 ( one of my small gripes is that we never see what the spin doctors on the other side are doing . ) 
wag the dog is a funny movie about serious problems : the trivialization of american politics , the role of the press in dumbing down the issues , the impact of hollywood in creating campaign commercials , the reduction of all things political to soundbites and sidebars -- the list goes on . 
we can solve most of these problems by taking a greater role in our national life and educating ourselves as voters and citizens . 
wag the dog reminds us of what can happen if we don't . 
as the film opens up , expectant unwed mother sally ( played by drew barrymore ) encounters her baby's father in a fast food drive-through window . 
after he gets his milkshake , he drives off , only to be pursued by a military helicopter . 
from this moment forward , you know that this isn't going to be your run-of-the-mill romantic comedy . 
home fries tells the tale of the relationship between sally and dorian ( played by luke wilson ) , a helicopter pilot who has a different kind of connection with sally . . . more 
than he would care to admit ( hint : it has something to do with the father of sally's unborn child ) . 
after taking a personal ( and professional ) interest in her , he finds work at the local fast food restaurant at which she works , and the fun goes on from there . 
this movie is a lot of fun . 
it is comedic on two levels , as a romantic comedy and a dark comedy . 
the romantic moments are sweet , yet not sappy . 
one of the more poignant moments is when dorian accompanies sally to lamaze classes . 
however , the dark comedic moments are more memorable . 
this is also a tale of revenge , and a funny one at that . 
the father of sally's unborn child also happened to be a married man , whose wife is played by catherine o'hara . 
she does a wonderful portrayal of a jealous wife who is targeting the person who had an affair , and is not above getting other people to do her dirty work . 
 ( my apologies if this sounds cryptic , but there is too much of the plot to give away ) . 
rounding out the cast are jake busey as angus , dorian's overzealous brother and daryl mitchell as roy , dorian's trainer at the fast food restaurant . 
the dialogue is sharp and not filled with sappy overtones , even with the romantic nature of the plot . 
if there are any complaints , it is over drew barrymore's performance . 
while she does light up the screen , there are moments when she doesn't seem all that convincing . 
the movie was filmed in texas , and most of the characters have southern texan accents . 
drew barrymore's accent tends to come and go ( luke wilson doesn't seem to have this problem ) . 
as well , she seems awfully agile for a woman that is eight months pregnant . 
still , this movie is one that will please many viewers . 
with plot twists galore and hilarious dark moments , this is sure to entertain . 
the second jackal-based film to come out in 1997 ( the other starring bruce willis was simply entitled the jackal ) , this one stars aidan quinn and donald sutherland , and is directed by a man who hailed from joblo's own alma matter , concordia university in montreal , canada . 
the story is based on the exploits of the real terrorist known as the jackal , but does not pretend to be 100% factual . 
plot : naval officer ramirez ( quinn ) gets called upon by the cia to impersonate the international terrorist known as the jackal , in order to put an end to the actual militant's radical activities . 
he is chosen for this role because he physically resembles the real terrorist to a tee . 
ramirez reluctantly agrees to take part in this " assignment " , and soon finds himself wrapped up in a true web of international terrorism , intrigue and double-personality syndrome ( which does not sit well with his uninformed wife and kids back in the states . ) 
critique : great premise is executed with enough style and thrills to keep the piece interesting throughout its close to two-hour runtime . 
admittedly , i wasn't a huge fan of any of the main actors in this film , and didn't expect much from this movie beforehand , but surprisingly it did have its thrilling moments , as well as a mostly plausible and absorbing story line . 
the first hour is mostly just a build-up of things to come , and does offer a great characterization of the jackal , but the second hour is the one that really cranks in the cool scenes and a sweet ending . 
quinn was adequate in both roles as naval officer ramirez and the real jackal , but didn't offer anything extraordinary , in my opinion . 
sutherland and kingsley seem to be playing the same role that they've played in both of their respective careers of late , but nonetheless , appeared to relish the cold-heartedness of their chosen characters . 
i didn't like performance put forth from quinn's wife in this flick , but then again , she doesn't show up in most of the film , so that wasn't so bad . 
i did however enjoy director duguay's interesting style and cinematic vision . 
this thriller could easily have been boring during many sequences , but duguay always seemed to find something interesting to show the viewer . 
i thought that was neat . 
having said that , i didn't think the first hour needed to be as long as it was , and the film did have me tinkering on the bridge of believability when the " fake " jackal met with the " real " jackal's girlfriend without much retrospection on her part , but all in all , not too many complaints in a movie that could easily be enjoyed by all those who take pleasure in the spy and terrorist thriller genre . 
little known facts : ben kingsley's real name is krishna banji , he stands 5 " 8 , was born in scarborough , england , and won the best actor honor in 1982's academy awards presentation for the title role he portrayed in ghandi . 
many scenes from this film were actually shot in montreal , canada ( joblo's haven of restfulness ) . 
donald sutherland has fathered actor kiefer sutherland , is canadian , and apparently still owns a place in the north of montreal . 
one of the last entries in the long-running carry on series , carry on behind is very similar to carry on camping in that it involves a group of holidaymakers descending on a 'caravan' site . 
professors anna vrooshka ( elke sommer ) and roland crump ( kenneth williams ) and a group of archaeology students stay in the caravan site owned by major leep ( kenneth connor ) so that they can explore the nearby roman settlement remains . 
anna has a little trouble understanding english and sometimes people get the wrong end of the stick : - for instance , when anna is asking for 'scrubbers for dirty caravan' , she means that she wants a scrubbing brush to clean the caravan ! 
arthur upmore ( bernard bresslaw ) and his wife linda ( patsy rowlands ) take her mother daphne barnes ( joan sims ) and her minah bird on holiday with them . 
mother-in-law jokes prevail . 
furthermore , the trouble that joe and norma baxter ( ian lavender and adrienne posta ) have with their large irish greyhound allows for some comical moments between the two families . 
fred ramsden ( windsor davies ) and ernie bragg ( jack douglas ) leave their wives ( liz fraser and patricia franklin ) behind for a fishing holiday . 
however , they have more in mind than fishing when they catch sight of two young girls , sandra ( carol hawkins ) and carol ( sherrie hewson ) . 
the story involves the disruption caused by the archaeological professors of the day-to-day running of the camp , the search for the minah bid and greyhound , the major , fred and ernie's desperate need of a woman , a misunderstanding leading to a striptease at the caravan park's pub , and a shock in store for daphne . 
the partnership between sommer and williams is very effective and amusing . 
this is what binds the movie together . 
joan sims stands out as the demanding mother-in-law , bernard bresslaw and patsy rowlands work well together as husband and wife , and carol hawkins and sherrie hewson are a welcome addition to the cast . 
on the other hand , there are low-key performances from kenneth connor and peter butterworth as barnes the handyman , and there are very poor performances by windsor davies and jack douglas who spend far too much time on the screen ! 
even though there is no real plot to speak of and the jokes are getting bluer due to the new scriptwriter dave freeman , there are enough truly comical moments and bright and breezy performances to lift this carry on above many of its predecessors . 
although the regular cast is depleted , the ones that remain show that they can still make a good carry on film . 
a relative flop at the cinema , this movie deserves a lot more recognition . 
the cryptic teaser trailer has been unspooling in moviehouses for quite sometime now : " it mu5t be found . " 
so what , exactly , is the fifth element ? 
after seeing luc besson's ambitious , much-shrouded-in-secrecy science fiction fantasy , i could not help but be let down by the actual answer , which is not nearly as exciting nor clever as one would think . 
but what is far from a letdown is the film as a whole , a wildly imaginative feast for the senses that does what all the best science fiction films do--create a universe unlike any other presented on the silver screen . 
the biggest irony of the fifth element is that the one thing that has been kept under such tight wraps--the actual storyline--is the most conventional , dismayingly so , element ( pun intended ) of the film . 
speaking in the vaguest possible terms , the basics of the plot are as follows : in the year 2259 , a great force of evil threatens to consume the earth , and only the four elements--earth , wind , fire , and water--united with a fifth element can stop it . 
figuring into all of this are new york cabbie korben dallas ( bruce willis ) ; a shady , southern-drawling entrepreneur by the name of zorg ( the hilariously hammy gary oldman , picking up where he left off in besson's the professional ) ; a priest ( ian holm ) ; and a mysterious creature named leeloo ( milla jovovich ) . 
all of the pieces come together in a tidy and somewhat underwhelming--and unsurprising--fashion , but there is no denying that this basic story holds some intrinsic interest . 
what remains interesting and exciting , however , after brief glimpses is the fascinating world besson has created with production designer dan weil , director of photography thierry arbogast , visual effects supervisor mark stetson , and the crew at digital domain . 
the look is absolutely mesmerizing right from the opening moments to the last . 
the frenzied cityscape of new york , with its vibrant day-glo colors , tall buildings penetrating high into the clouds , and the swarm of cars , cabs , and other vehicles flying through labyrinthian skyways , is absolutely breathtaking to behold , especially in a wild car chase sequence early on in the film . 
but it would not have been a completely captivating vision if the people inhabiting the settings weren't equally as interesting , and are they ever . 
in addition to the exotic menagerie of alien creatures that populate this world , from bulky robots to dog-like mangalores , the humans are outfitted in costumes by eccentric designer jean-paul gaulthier , best known for creating madonna's pointy bustier get-up in her blonde ambition tour . 
gaulthier's outlandish creations , such as a number worn by leeloo made entirely out of white straps , feel more at home in besson's futuristic vision than on any fashion runway in the world ; they add to the sense of otherworldliness about the film . 
while besson's bold vision is the biggest virtue of the film , it also could be its biggest obstacle to reaching a mass audience . 
for all its imagination , certain things about the film may be a bit too quirky and bizarre . 
i really do not know what middle america will make of the most outrageous character of the film , ruby rhod ( chris tucker ) , a flamboyant disc jockey who makes dennis rodman look conservative--he makes a raucous entrance dressed in an animal print dress , sporting a blonde hairdo in the shape of a hair dryer , speaking in high pitches at rapid fire speed . 
at first this character's hyper energy is funny , but the act wears out its welcome very quickly . 
not irritating , but just as strange , is a musical number by blue-skinned alien chanteuse diva ( maiwenn lebesco ) , who sings--and dances--an aria that is an unlikely blend of classical opera and techno . 
the tune , as with the entirety of longtime besson collaborator eric serra's innovative score , is haunting , but it is also completely jarring . 
then there are the campy touches of humor besson and co-scripter robert mark kamen sprinkle throughout , which too often are silly and forced ; a comic sexual encounter between ruby rhod and a flight attendant is highly distracting and not very funny , to boot . 
the story's weakness shines through in the climax and conclusion of the fifth element . 
while still visually and aurally spectacular , the events detailed are not as exciting nor powerful as they should be . 
the big , serious dramatic climax was met with more than a few snickers , and it ambitiously strives for a profundity which the film had not even begun to work toward . 
as such , at the end there is a sense that there was something bigger at work here , that there was still more left to be said about this story and these characters . 
this suspicion was confirmed by besson himself , who told me in the lobby following the screening ( imagine that , the filmmaker watching the film with the " enemy " --the critics ) that what had made it to the screen was really just the first half of the lengthy original fifth element screenplay and that the second half--now titled mr . shadow--is still waiting to be made . 
still , despite the story problems , the fifth element is an artistic triumph for luc besson ; rarely does a filmmaker's original vision come to the screen in all its audacious , undiluted glory . 
it is a fascinating example of how of one artist's fervid imagination can transport an audience into an intoxicating fantasy world generally seen only in dreams . 
 " very bad things , " is the most delightfully morbid film of the year , a movie that goes so far over the deep end with its outrageousness and violence that i couldn't help but be won over by the material . 
the film starts off with five friends leaving their homes in los angeles for a bachelor party in las vegas . 
the groom-to-be is kyle fisher ( jon favreau ) , who is about to be married to the controlling , wedding-obsessed laura ( cameron diaz ) . 
the other friends are real estate agent robert boyd ( christian slater ) , quiet charles ( leland orser ) , and brothers , michael ( jeremy piven ) and family man adam ( daniel stern ) . 
after a wild night of gambling , boozing , and drugs , a stripper ( carla scott ) who was paid for by robert comes into their hotel room , but after a freak accident , to everyone's terror , she is killed . 
as robert puts it : " there are two options : go to the police and go to prison , or bury her out in the desert where no one will ever find her . " 
after a security guard enters into the hotel room unexpectantly and sees the body , robert is forced to kill him as well . 
 " okay , there is only one option now . 
you can forget about calling the police , " he says . 
by the time the five friends return home and as the wedding draws nearer , most of them are overcome with guilt , which sets off an even more elaborate series of event , that includes much , much more murder , double-crosses , and the inevitable wedding from hell . 
 " very bad things , " which is actor peter berg's feature film directing debut , is the shockingly perverse and wicked comedy that , " there's something about mary , " wanted to be . 
it pulls out all the stops to create something fresh , original , and hilarious , even if that requires surprisingly graphic violence , gore , and a slew of truly hateful characters that all get what they deserve by the end . 
the screenplay , also written by berg , is , to put it mildly , very funny and courageous . 
during the second act of the film , some of the fun was beginning to slightly dwindle due to so much death , which was beginning to undermine the humor , but it eventually recouped itself with a climax that has to be seen to be believed . 
the dialogue is edgy and inventive , and this film proves that a movie doesn't necessarily require likable character to be extremely enjoyable . 
there's more fun , i think , in showing ignorable people getting their just desserts . 
cameron diaz gives her best performance to date here , and has a lot of fun in playing the hateful laura , who eventually turns out to be more crazy than any of the five male friends . 
diaz puts so much overblown energy to her character that i really do think she deserves a supporting actress oscar nomination come next january . 
by the time she is beating someone to death with a coat hanger , and reciting lines like , " stuff him in the crapper and get your ass upstairs , " i couldn't help but crack up at how " balls-to-the-wall " this film had become . 
jeanne tripplehorn creates another character original , as daniel stern's wife , who late in the picture , we discover , is a tough kick-boxer that should not be messed around with . 
it is at this level that , " very bad things , " was so entertaining and surprising . 
just when you thought you could predict what was going to happen , there would be a little twist involving the characters that would be absolutely wacky . 
the last sequence was perfect and managed to go even further over-the-top . 
although i enjoyed the film immensely , let me make this clear : " very bad things , " is not a movie for everyone . 
it is more tasteless than anything i have ever seen , it is more violent and bloody than a r-rated film usually is , and it is offensive . 
luckily , these are elements that i would prefer in a comedy , since it clearly shows the filmmakers were set on making a no-holds-barred , politically incorrect comedy . 
the fact that this film slipped through the cracks of the usually mainstream and " safe " wide-releases coming out lately , still gives me hope for the hollywood film industry . 
it is hard to imagine that a movie which includes abortion and incest as prominent plot devices could be so sensitive , so delicate , so insightful and yes , even so enjoyable . 
somehow , the cider house rules manages to keep an even keel in the face of the harsh subject matter and allows a substantial amount of heart to shine through . 
set in the 1940's , the film tells the story of a unique young man named homer wells ( tobey maguire , ride with the devil ) . 
an orphan , twice rejected as an infant by possible adoptive parents , he grows up in the care and under the tutelage of dr . wilbur larch ( michael caine , little voice ) , father figure to the orphans of st . cloud , obstetrician or abortionist to the unhappily pregnant women who come there seeking his help . 
figuring that as long as homer was going to stay at the orphanage , he might as well be of use , dr . larch begins teaching him all he knows about obstetrics . 
soon homer is delivering babies like a professional . 
he refuses to perform abortions , instead wondering why the couples just didn't behave more responsibly . 
larch , too old and experienced to have such youthful ideals , marvels that homer " continues to have such high expectations of people . " 
such is the result of an insulated upbringing . 
though skilled in certain medical procedures , homer remains woefully naive and ignorant about most everything else . 
he finally figures that in order to find his place in the world , he must go out into it . 
befriending a young couple who had come to see dr . larch , he hitches a ride with them and parlays that into landing a job as an apple picker with a group of black migrant workers at the orchard where they lived . 
thus , homer begins his worldly instruction , with new friend candy kendall ( charlize theron , the astronaut's wife ) a willing tutor . 
tobey maguire is well cast yet again as an inherently good man who is seeking answers to life's questions . . . 
many of which he was unaware needed to be asked . 
he demonstrates a quiet strength and thoughtful curiosity that is both warm and appealing . 
michael caine is , in a word , brilliant as the caring caretaker of these orphans , many of whom he helped to bring into the world . 
calling them " princes of maine , kings of new england " in his ritualistic goodnight , mr . caine manages to communicate the love and commitment larch has towards these children without becoming maudlin or saccharine . 
delroy lindo ( a life less ordinary ) has many powerful moments as mr . rose , the strong and charismatic leader of the apple pickers whom homer joins . 
director lasse hallstrom ( what's eating gilbert grape ? ) and screenwriter/novelist john irving ( the world according to garp ) , who adapted his own work for this movie deserve much of the credit for the balanced approach to the sensitive subject matter . 
regardless of one's personal stand on the divisive matter of abortion , it is hard to imagine anyone becoming offended by the evenhanded treatment used by these filmmakers . 
the title is a reference to a list of rules posted in the quarters of the illiterate apple pickers . 
figuring the rules didn't apply to them since they didn't have a hand in writing them , they decide to ignore the list and make up their own rules as they go along . 
dr . larch , in his own way , acts similarly . 
there is a danger in that line of reasoning . 
god has also given us a set of rules . 
unlike the list posted in the cider house , god's rules , if followed , promise us benefits beyond our imagination . 
and yet , many continue to ignore his " rules " preferring to make up their own as they go through life . 
 " trust in the lord with all thine heart ; and lean not unto thine own understanding . " 
proverbs 3 : 5 [kjv] 
just as a builder follows a designer's blueprint or a conductor follows a composer's score , why shouldn't we follow the rules of life given to us by life's architect for our own blessing ? 
known as the most successful , highest-grossing romantic comedy in history , director garry marshall apparently struck gold with " pretty woman , " which opened quietly during the summer of 1990 but , thanks to positive word-of-mouth , was able to reach upwards of $175-million in theaters alone . 
the question of why it worked so well lies directly with the film's two charismatic stars , richard gere and julia roberts , since the story itself is none too original or even believable . 
the other winning element that makes " pretty woman " so entertaining is its genuine sweetness and innocence , which is rarely as palpable in today's films as it is here . 
edward lewis ( richard gere ) is a suave , extremely wealthy business mogul who , at the start of the picture , breaks up with his girlfriend over the phone after a nasty argument , and abruptly takes his friend's car and gets lost on hollywood boulevard while trying to find his hotel . 
stopping the car along the street , he asks a woman , obviously a prostitute , for directions . 
agreeing to get in his car and show him for ten bucks , edward ultimately accepts , they strike up a conversation , and before long she has been asked up to his penthouse room on the top floor . 
this meeting does not lead to sex , however , as edward confides that he'd rather just have someone to talk to , and offers her $300 to spend the night . 
just as well , since the hooker , named vivian , is a beautiful , generally upbeat young woman who is the type of person that can lend an understanding ear . 
the meeting between these two completely opposite people does not end the next morning as planned , when edward finally offers to pay vivian three-thousand dollars if she will stay with him for six days and nights while he is in the area , keeping him company and acting as his companion to business dinners and get-togethers . 
since vivian firmly tells edward at the beginning that she will do anything with him except kiss him on the lips , which always leads to unwanted intimacy when dealing with her customers , the obligatory rule of the genre says that by the third act , edward and vivian will finally , truly , kiss . 
allegedly planned as a grim , downbeat drama until garry marshall came on board as director , " pretty woman " has been transformed in all senses of the word into a classic fairy tale , a la " cinderella . " 
the premise is hardly believable and its portrait of prostitutes hanging out on the streets of hollywood boulevard is just about the most idealized portrayal that there could have possibly been . 
you honestly don't need a high-iq ( or any iq , for that matter ) to guess how the film will end , and the story is as old as my great great grandma bertha . 
the supporting characters are almost all sketchily written and less-than-gratifying , and the screenplay is no award winner . 
and yet , amidst all of these qualms and flaws , " pretty woman " is an astoundingly charming motion picture , and it is definately easy to see why it became such an overnight sensation with moviegoers . 
you'd actually be amazed how far bemusement can go , and there are a few select moments ( not even whole scenes , mind you ) that are as romantic as anything i've seen on film in the 1990's . 
additionally , the film belongs , and its success can be attributed , to two people and two people only , and they are richard gere and julia roberts . 
playing sex symbols throughout the '80s with such pictures as " american gigolo " and " an officer and a gentleman , " gere branches out here to play a more quiet , almost shy , but still alluring , character that believably could sweep julia roberts off her feet , and vice versa . 
julia roberts , in her breakthrough role after 1988's well-received " mistic pizza " and 1989's " steel magnolia , " for which she was nominated for an academy award , is radiant and funny as the wordly vivian , who surprisingly could be a role model for impressionistic viewers , not for her line of work , but more for her sheer intelligence . 
it would have probably been easy to have written vivian as merely a flake , but screenwriter j . f . lawton clearly cared too much about his central characters to do such a thing . 
after " pretty woman , " roberts , along with meg ryan , became the reigning queen of romantic comedies ( with her latest being the just-released " runaway bride , " which repairs gere and roberts together once again ) , and no wonder . 
roberts has continually proven to not only be a strong actress with a flare for comedy , but also one who can efficiently do drama , and in almost every film she appears in , it is difficult not to fall in love with her along with her male co-star . 
an especially strong scene that gere and roberts do together takes place after edward foolishly tells one of his co-workers that vivian is actually a prostitute , and he then approaches her , making sexual advances . 
no only does this make vivian feel cheap , especially since she had previously been posing as a more professional , eloquent young lady , but it also maddens her that edward would demean and betray her in such a way , and ultimately causes her to question where exactly her life is leading , and if she likes this particular path . 
on the more dreamy side , the film is filled with romantic scenes that are simply effervescent to behold , especially one in which edward enters into the hotel's lounge to see vivian turn around and not only reveal her marvelous cocktail dress , but also her inner ( and outer ) glowing beauty . 
another subtle moment has vivian lovingly blowing a kiss to edward , who is asleep , and placing it on his lips , since she still is unsure if she should be getting attached to this man who may very well be out of her life forever in a short couple of days . 
 " pretty woman " does not blatantly step wrong until the very last scene , which is a happy ending ( as you'd expect , and wouldn't have it any other way ) that somehow does not work , perhaps because of its undeniable contrivances . 
this one misstep does not put a damper on the rest of the film , though , because there is just far too much magic at work here to disaffirm such a petty problem . 
helped along by a warm , memorable supporting performance from laura san giacomo , as vivian's best friend and roommate , and a fabulously catchy soundtrack , in which all of the songs prominently aid in the movie's overall fulfillment , " pretty woman " is a sparkler of a motion picture , and has what it takes to act as a blueprint on how to make the quintessential romantic comedy . 
the dramatic comedy cousins has all the necessary ingredients : a witty and whimsical script , inspired performances , a great sense of humor , a large and wonderful cast , and the beautiful scenery of vancouver . 
it's a movie of weddings , marriage , family , infidelity , and--oh yes--love . 
like 3 men and a baby , cousins is an americanized version of a french film : 1975's cousin , cousine . 
the plot is complicated , but it goes something like this . 
larry and tom are cousins , each of whom is not-so-happily-married . 
tom starts an affair with larry's wife , tish , and to get even , larry and tom's wife , maria , pretend to have an affair of their own . 
soon the pretending turns to love and cousins is off and running . 
cousins is populated by a wide assortment of interesting characters and caricatures . 
the acting is first rate down to even the smallest supporting role , and virtually every performance deserves mention . 
ted danson ( in his first starring film role ) finally gets to play a character with some depth and sensitivity . 
while larry may be confident and charming like sam malone on " cheers , " he is also complex and vulnerable , with more between his ears than empty space . 
as maria , isabella rossellini is a joy to watch ; she is shy , sensuous , and immensely alluring . 
sean young is perfectly cast as larry's picture perfect wife , tish , a superficial and trendy make-up consultant . 
keith coogan , from adventures in babysitting , is wonderfully weird and eccentric as larry's rebellious son , mitch . 
and finally , lloyd bridges in a tour de force performance is mitch's rambunctious grandfather ; he provides some of cousins' best lines and laughs . 
like moonstruck , cousins is a mix of drama and comedy . 
the film is larger than life and has a keen sense of the absurd . 
it understands human nature extremely well and milks it for every possible laugh and heart-tug . 
how often do you see a movie where you believe that two characters truly and sincerely care for and love each other , as friends and as lovers ? 
well , to its credit , cousins is just such a movie . 
let's hope the french continue to provide us with the inspiration to make films like cousins 
this remake of " la cage aux folles " features a gay couple pretending to be straight in order to pull the wool over the eyes of their son's future in-laws . 
the couple ( robin williams and nathan lane ) are about as archetypal , or as the less kind might put it ? stereotypical , gays possible . 
williams owns a nightclub featuring drag queens where his partner performs as the featured star . 
they live above the club in what could not possibly be mistaken as a heterosexual abode . 
williams is excellent as should be no surprise . 
gene hackman as right-wing potential father-in-law is refreshing in one of his few comedic roles . 
the real star is lane . 
his attempted transformation from one of the most obviously gay men in the world to the straight-shooting uncle is hilarious . 
perhaps it is a personal failing on my part , but the crying and screaming drag queen faux high drama just grates on my nerves and the first few minutes of this film are filled with it . 
luckily ( for me at least ) , it doesn't last long and the rest of the story focuses on the relationship between the men , their son and the deception . 
the question of stereotypes is a touchy one . 
these guys personify the homophobic gay image . 
you can almost hear the swishing . 
if you think that they are supposed to be representative of every gay man in the world , you'll be outraged . 
but if you can accept the view is that this is a movie about gay individuals , you'll love it . 
your choice . 
seen may 19 , 1999 at 5 p . m . at the crossgates cinema 18 ( guilderland , n . y . ) , theater #1 , with my brother john for $8 . 50 . 
[theater rating : * * * * : excellent seats , sound and picture] 
 ( critic's note : this review is the longest i've ever written and still only scratches the surface . 
i'd recommend this be read only by those who have seen the film as a form of critical analysis . ) 
as my friend and fellow film critic ted prigge said in his review of `the phantom menace' - how do i even write this review ? 
never mind the fact that i've been waiting for a new `star wars' movie since i was seven years old . 
never mind the fact everyone on the internet had already dissected and discussed the movie before it was even released . 
never mind that there's so much going on in this movie in terms of plot , action , special effects and long-term story that to analyze every aspect would take a lot of time and energy and still wouldn't cover everything . 
and also like ted does in all of his reviews , i'll try to review this in a way different from my usual reviews and instead write as casually as possible as if i was talking directly to you , the reader . 
before we can begin analyzing the specific aspects of the film , many of the most general and most significant factors must be considered ( to get the specifics of the film , skip this and the next four paragraphs ) . 
as has been made obvious for the last several years , another trilogy of films will be produced to account for the [missing] initial three installments of the `star wars' series ( the first of the films was actually episode four , not one ) . 
george lucas , the creator of the series , has probably just assumed most people know the first-produced trilogy ( `star wars , ' `the empire strikes back' and `return of the jedi' ) is actually the second trilogy , chronologically . 
in media interviews in the past he has explained why the movies were made out of order , but i can't recall his reasons . 
with this new film he as writer and director has also assumed viewers are at least vaguely familiar with the storylines and significant plot points of the first trilogy ( err . . . 
second trilogy . . . 
well you know what i mean ) . 
and in order for this review to be thorough many of those significant points must be mentioned which , unfortunately , may serve as spoilers so proceed with caution . 
[critic's note #1 : it is one my personal policy not to intentionally analyze spoilers because i would like my reviews to be able to make sense to the reader both before and after viewing the film reviewed , but it would be nearly impossible to do the film justice here without breaking the rule . 
critic's note #2 : reviewing this film also breaks the universal critics' law of reviewing movies , which as roger ebert coined , `it's not what a movie is about , but how it is about it . ' 
because so many outside factors come into play in the film's plot and significance as part of a trilogy , and just considering modern society , it again would be difficult , if not impossible to simply review the film as a completely autonomous story . ] 
first of all we have to catalog what we know about the film before even going into it . 
we know that young anakin skywalker will grow up to become the evil ruler darth vader who is also the father of luke skywalker , who will lead a successful revolution against him and his empire . 
we know obi-wan `ben' kenobi was the trainer of anakin in the ways of `the force' in attempts to become a jedi knight , but would fail and thus anakin would fall to the `dark side . ' 
we also know something about `the force' itself , that it is some kind of universal force which determines fate and can be manipulated by those whose minds are expanded enough to believe in it and feel it ( the jedi ) . 
what we don't know for sure is the history of the ruling of the galaxy , which is most likely much longer and more complex than any government we have had here on earth . 
to me , this was one of the most fascinating aspects of the first three films because there seemed to be a subtle , definite order to all the complexity . 
also , it seems that we're supposed to be familiar with a few other details about the story which have come out of the thousands of comic books and paperbacks published in the years since the movies ended . 
most notably , details regarding the emperor from `empire' and `jedi , ' and that he was once a senator and his last name is palpatine . 
for those who haven't kept up with all the `star wars' paraphernalia over the years , there is still a way to know these details simply by recognizing an actor ( or his voice at least ) . 
with `the phantom menace' being the first chapter of a long saga , one would assume the basic groundwork would be laid , including the history behind all the major factors of the series , especially `the force' and the jedi knights . 
unfortunately , this film does more of the opposite as it simply builds on top of what must be a history so long and detailed it could never be explained . 
i didn't liked that aspect to this film and is one of the reasons it falls just short of greatness . 
if you're going to tell a story from the beginning - tell it from the beginning ( is it possible that after this trilogy is complete there could be another trilogy of episodes -1 through -3 to clarify the back story even further ? ) . 
but i digress . 
i've said so much and yet i haven't even touched on the specifics of the film itself . 
all these necessary `disclaiming' elements should go to show just how vast the story of the `star wars' series is and this individual film itself . 
what we get here is a movie not unlike any of the other three we've come to know and love since the late 1970s . 
its similarity to the other films helps to keep the spirit of the series familiar , but at the same time seems to be a flaw in the filmmaking process itself since it sometimes rings of unoriginality . 
the basic story is rather sorted , complex and even confusing at times . 
we're told that an army known as `the trade federation' has set up a blockade around an seemingly insignificant planet called naboo . 
we're not given too many details to clarify the back story of what the federation is and what their purpose is , instead the film opts to get its story moving quickly . 
we're introduced to two jedi , the master qui-gon jinn ( neeson ) and his apprentice obi-wan kenobi ( mcgregor ) . 
the two are acting as ambassadors of some sort in hopes of ending the obvious hostility between the federation and the planet's queen , amidala ( portman ) . 
the leader of the federation , an alien called viceroy , is following the orders of a strange , mythical character - an older human man whose face and body are covered and shadowed by the black robe and hood he wears . 
he is referred to as lord sidious but considering his appearance , and especially that creepy evil voice of his , he is a obviously one of the most significant characters in the series . 
sidious communicates to viceroy only through digital transmissions and never in person . 
clearly his actual whereabouts are something he wants to keep secret because that would also reveal his identity ( which is never openly revealed in the film , but should be clear to most viewers . 
i have a feeling we'll delve into his background in the next two films ) . 
but it doesn't take the film long to spring into action and within minutes our hero jedi are fighting for their lives and the film's story begins to move along . 
the film doesn't have one specific plot and works in the same manner as the other films in the series where as what we get is one mini-plot and adventure on top of another . 
there are so many of these mini-plots-within-plots in this film i would not describe them all because it is what gives the movie its hook . 
the other films have relied on this type of storytelling , but because of the limits of the technology at the time , the films' screenplays were also limiting . 
the sense of limitlessness here is what gives `the phantom menace' its unique traits . 
as we already know , the film takes place at least a generation or two before the original `star wars' trilogy which means a lot of the background which was unclear and/or unexplained may be cleared up here as it is the beginning of the vast epic story . 
and here the most significant storyline is that involving the discovery of 10-year-old anakin skywalker ( lloyd ) , by qui-gon jinn and his introduction to the jedi council . 
to briefly summarize the story , jinn stumbles upon skywalker in an attempt to buy parts for queen amidala's spaceship which was damaged in efforts to free her from the federation . 
their meeting on tatooine is mostly chance but of course jinn chalks it up to the will of the force . 
jinn can feel that skywalker has a great natural power in the force , and through another sub-plot involving a bet on skywalker in a fantastic race he will enter , more and more details of his significance begin to reveal themselves . 
this also provides for a new elaboration and explanation of the force which has never been mentioned before . 
in fact , it seems to be something so important it is upsetting it has never been mentioned before . 
the element seriously undermines the mystical aspect of the force and transforms it into something more physical and scientific which is completely unnecessary . 
by the film's third act all the major significant elements become tied together in a rather familiar execution of the plot . 
it's funny how the reality of the `star wars' world seems so embedded in mythology , new age-like philosophy and religion and yet the solution to all the major conflicts in the series has been violence . 
not that this technique hasn't been used in movies and in real-life situations countless times throughout history . 
and at least it's all in the spirit of the ultimate powers of good versus evil in a fun and exciting matter . 
it does border of the cartoonish sometimes , but that's just the film appealing to our inner child , which is the basic reason the entire saga exists and has become such a big part of our modern society . 
`the phantom menace' delivers exactly what you'd expect from a `star wars' film which is why it succeeds as well as it does but is always why it never truly achieves greatness . 
so many things in the film we've seen before and done with more heart because the filmmakers concentrated just a bit more on story and character because they were limited . 
but this film is far from bad because it at least embraces the spirit of sheer fun at the movies . 
the story of us , a rob reiner film , is the second movie this fall that touches the viewer in a way they are rarely touched by a film , as they can see their everyday lives in the usually once in a year films . 
well , 1999 has two of them , the other being the instant classic about a very dysfunctional family , american beauty . 
the story of us , a film about the highs and lows of marriage and family , is a well written , heartbreaking and insightful film that made the majority of the audience , including myself , cry . 
the story of us tells the story of ben ( bruce willis ) and katie ( michelle pfeiffer ) jordan , and asks the question , " can a marriage survive 15 years of marriage ? " 
the film is about two individuals who have come together , spent a good chunk of their lives together , and shows when our main characters are " him " and " her " ( during the bad times ) , and when they are " us " ( during the good times ) . 
the story of us is about their entire 15 years of marriage that is collapsing day by day . 
ben and katie now only see and live with each other because they don't want to devastate their children with the fact that their parents no longer , or at least say they don't , love each other anymore . 
ben , a cartoonist , and katie , a crossword puzzle writer , have grown apart during their fifteen years of marriage , as they have grown to follow different views on life , family , and marriage . 
katie is the more organized , sophisticated type , who wants to plan everything out , while ben is a spontaneous , adventurous individual who doesn't mind doing things differently than they were planned . 
the story of us plays out nicely , as the film opens with ben sharing his story with a therapist , told to the viewer through flashbacks . 
as the film progresses , it switches between ben and katie talking to their therapist , with their stories being told with flashbacks of their marriage . 
this method is highly effective , as we see the characters changing from year to year , slowly growing apart . 
through the flashbacks , we get to see the story of them through both of the character's eyes , and this gives us a strong sense of what their characters are really like , as the story of us has three dimensional , believable main characters . 
the screenplay , written by jessie nelson ( stepmom ) and alan zweibel ( dragnet ) , is a touching , down to earth work that hits a chord within the viewer , much like another one of nelson's films , stepmom . 
the script has an open honesty and outlook on life , one that is so realistic , you feel uncomfortable at many times , because so many situations the characters are in are undeniably familiar , as most families these days most go through the hard times , as ben and katie must . 
if it wasn't for the first 15 minutes that the writers wrote , which are rugged and certainly flawed , the story of us would have been this year's best picture . 
bruce willis , a usual action/adventure star , has certainly turned himself around in the past year- he went from being a man who was being typecast to the same role in action movies , to a distinguished , sophisticated actor , as in last summer's the sixth sense ; and now in the story of us , willis shows the world what he can really do if he is fed a good script . 
although i wouldn't pick willis as the choice actor for ben jordan , willis handles himself nicely , and shines in a few of the film's most powerful scenes , enough that make his performance a definite contender comes awards season . 
where to start about michelle pfeiffer ? 
pfeiffer's performance is spellbinding and ultimately strong , as she brings her character to life with such charisma and emotion , you wonder how , how it is possible for someone to portray a real person with such realism . 
pfeiffer's performance is one that if not recognized by the academy next spring , will be in the heart's of any viewer that has watched this moving film . 
the story of us is one of 1999's most real , yet funny films , as the razor sharp script evens out the laughs and the tears to keep the viewer hooked . 
superb acting , direction , writing , story , and soundtrack that always sets the mood for the film , which is beautifully composed by eric clapton and marc shaiman , make the story of us a touching , unforgettable motion picture that will touch the hearts of viewers across the country- and will certainly become one of the most talked about movies of the fall . 
the film's major high points are the fights between ben and katie , as the two constantly accuse of each other of whose fault it is that their marriage has collapsed , and although they also say things like " it's over , " or " i hate you , " you can tell the two still share a deep connection , and that inside , somewhere , they are still an " us . " 
the bottom line : a wonderful , enchanting , and heartbreaking film . 
one of the most realistic , heartbreaking films in recent years . 
warren beatty returns to the screens in the funniest , craziest and hard hitting movie in his career . 
based on a story concocted by himself , and also written by beatty , bulworth gives a good insight of what beatty thinks of the american government system . 
beatty stars as senator jay bulworth , who's going through a nervous breakdown . 
after hiring someone to kill him , he completely changes his campaign strategy and tells the honest truth about what's _really_ happening in american politics , much to the annoyance of assistant dennis murphy ( platt . ) 
instead of everyone hating him , the american public love him . 
however , inside his party , more people want to kill him than just the hired assassin . 
and he also strikes a relationship with black girl nina ( berry . ) 
it's remarkable that this film was released at all . 
much more open than the rather subdued primary colours , bulworth barely gives the american politic system a good name . 
the outrageous remarks bulworth makes to his potential voters are very funny , and also somewhat true . 
it's great that beatty isn't afraid to let loose on a subject . 
talking of beatty , he's excellent in the role of the demented senator , clearing having fun . 
and seeing warren beatty have fun is a rare sight indeed . 
even in dick tracy , he was the most straighten face actor . 
 ( then again , he was the only characters face we could completely see . ) 
the film gives an opportunity for the 61 year old beatty to indulge in some rapping , which he does with gusto ( and also quite well . ) 
and seeing beatty as a 'homeboy' has to be seen to be believed . 
it's nice to see that beatty can laugh at himself . 
second best is oliver platt as the flustered , coke snorting assistant , who goes over the top when he finally snaps . 
halle berry is fine , and sexy , as the intellectual nina , who comes to like the senator . 
also popping up in the supporting cast is paul sorvino wit h a strange accent , laurie metcalf as the exact same characters she's also played , and christine baranski of cybill fame as bullworths wife , who all contribute to the fun . 
and , this being a political film , the ubiquitous larry king makes an appearance , as , * shock * , himself . 
the writing and directing , both by beatty , are above par . 
the direction is very nearly sitcom like , but suits the film perfectly , and both the politics are gangland parts are handled well . 
the script is funny , and the raps are actually well produced and humorous , and quite clever . 
they're not cringe inducing , at least . 
the script makes many points about society in america today , and isn't afraid to make any bold statements about what is a flawed system . 
best of all , the film is thought provoking , but directed and written in such a way that the film feels as light as a feather , and is very entertaining . 
there's also a great rap soundtrack with some well chosen tunes . 
bulworth is a film with many advantages , and few flaws . 
perhaps it could be somewhat embarrassing to see a 61 year old man rapping , but beatty does it so well it's irrelevant . 
in fact , there's very little against bulworth , except for the language which is very heavy , but then again it should be expected . 
bulworth , then , is well worth watching . 
a david wilcock review ? 1999 
 " you know , for kids " - norville barnes 
the long and illustrious career of robin williams , which has included both forgettable turns like mrs . 
doubtfire and flubber , was punctuated with the actor's first academy award in 1998 for his role in good will hunting . 
it was his first truly dramatic role since 1989's dead poets society , and critical remarks were unanimously positive . 
his next role , that of a deceased pediatrician in what dreams may come , was unfortunately lackluster . 
and so , after a six-year stint as a comedic actor , the proof on whether or not williams can cut it in the dramatic league has come down to patch adams . 
williams is the title character , hunter " patch " adams , sporting scruffy facial hair that falls between the clean-shavenness of dreams and the grotesque hairiness of will hunting . 
we're introduced to patch as he commits himself to a mental institution because of his suicidal tendancies . 
it's at the institution , however , that he discovers a latent talent for relating to people . 
he removes himself from the institution and enrolls at the university of virginia's medical college , where he finds that medical doctrine is a calculating , impersonal trade . 
his attempts to inject humanity into the profession result in several bouts with expulsion , and the movie climaxes with patch's appearance before the state medical board . 
the characters are well-defined in an oscar-worthy sense . 
although the script does not perform well as a narrative -- there's little story to be told outside of patch's skit-length experiences -- the script does go a long way toward building the relationships of characters . 
at medical school , patch meets up with truman schiff ( daniel london ) , an outsider like himself who relishes patch's zest for humanity . 
the two instantly become the best of friends , and it's easy to see why . 
monica potter plays patch's love interest , a young woman who personifies the things that patch hates about medical school . 
for some reason he's attracted to her , and although it never gets said , the audience understands from an intrinsic point of view . 
the script -- based on hunter adams' own story -- works well this way . 
the rest of the cast , bob gunton as the villain professor in particular , is solid . 
director tom shadyac ( liar liar ) leads us in and out of patch's life in a sound , intentional manner ; combined with williams' presence on screen , the movie rarely becomes boring . 
patch adams' lack of purpose is its major shortcoming , and for the first ninety minutes out of two hours , there's little feeling of continuity or the passage of time . 
nevertheless , it's an emotionally moving picture , and patch adams looks to be one of the more memorable of the holiday season . 
it succeeds at everything it tries , and only fails at the stuff it doesn't try in the first place . 
by and large there may be another oscar nomination herein for williams , but more importantly , it's entertainment for the entire family . 
in recent years , harrison ford has been such a grave screen presence , scowling through the likes of tom clancy's jack ryan series , _the_fugitive_ , and last year's smash _air_force_one_ , that one wonders if the rogue charm that made him such a superstar had been completely drained from his system . 
apparently , it was just lying dormant . 
with ivan reitman's enjoyable romantic comedy/adventure _six_days , _seven_nights_ , the lovable scoundrel is back , giving audiences a fresh reminder of why ford is one of the most enduring and popular modern screen icons . 
ford plays quinn harris , a carefree and slightly slobby ( endearingly so ) pilot in the tropics whose broken-down plane crashes in a storm , stranding him and his charter , new york magazine editor robin monroe ( anne heche ) , on a deserted island . 
of course , the sophisticated robin and the salt-of-the-earth quinn are at odds long before the plane goes down , and all manner of hostile repartee is exchanged between the two from their first meeting . 
while some of the lines fall flat , the formulaic motions work because of the unexpectedly electric chemistry between ford and heche . 
both actors , who have largely done serious works as of late , seem liberated by the lack of dramatic weight on their shoulders , and they deliver their zingers , as weak as they sometimes are , with beguiling abandon . 
naturally , there's nothing like a life-threatening crisis to bring two people together , and quinn and robin's warmup to each other is sped up even further by the arrival of some bloodthirsty pirates . 
granted , some conflict needed to be introduced on the island , but this tacked-on development from writer michael browning is a bit too obviously thrown in for the purpose of adding gratuitous action scenes . 
but the point is to get the two together , and their newfound affection causes complications for both , but mostly robin , who came to the islands on a vacation with her fiance frank ( david schwimmer ) , who frantically awaits her return on the home island . 
reitman , and old , reliable hand at breezy comedies , keeps the pace brisk and capably handles the more action-oriented sequences . 
his big accomplishment , however , is bringing the old , smiling ford back . 
as appealing and charismatic as he always is , ford hasn't been quite this charming and affable in years ; he's obviously having a blast , and the audience cannot help but have one along with him . 
holding her own is heche , whose scrappy character never becomes the screaming ninny she initially promises to be ( as the plane goes down , she frantically pops stress pills ) . 
she can take her lumps , physical and otherwise , just as well as quinn , making her a formidable foil and ideal match . 
formulaic and light as a feather , _six_days , _seven_nights_ could be cited as a classic example of the summer " popcorn " movie season's lack of substance . 
it's certainly fluff , but it's unpretentious , undemanding , and--most importantly--fun fluff that goes down as easily as a frothy pina colada on a balmy tropical beach . 
pass the popcorn . 
near the end of 1996 , analysts remarked that the year would be the last in which disney would stand alone as the animation king . 
the following year , 1997 , saw the first sleeper entry into the genre from a studio other than the magic kingdom : twentieth century fox gave baronial russia to the masses in the form of anastasia . 
at best , that's all it was -- a sleeper hit , designed to surprise but not shake the industry . 
in 1998 , however , things have been decidedly different . 
there have been a number of pushes on disney's death grip on the market , and fifty-one weeks into '98 , a new champion has emerged . 
dreamworks' the prince of egypt succeeds where all of the other conventionally animated products have failed . 
the other two contenders , warner brothers' quest for camelot and disney's own annual entry , mulan , lacked inspiration and drive respectively . 
although camelot was borderline-abysmal , and can't really be considered a shot at the title , mulan had the makings of winner . 
unfortunately , it was saturated with traditional , disney-cute animation , and lost points against the rapidly-changing face of the competition . 
in making the prince of egypt , dreamworks has strayed from all of these hallmarks and created a genuinely unique product . 
the animation is flawless , and , aside from a bug's life , is the best-looking movie to date . 
the animators have nimbly mixed both flat and spatial effects , and the 2d/3d combination is something that artists from disney and fox have heretofore struggled with . 
the key to success , however , was that the visuals were used not just because they looked cool but also as a method of advancing the plot . 
namely , some of the most important action sequences ( like the parting of the red sea ) were done almost entirely in 3d . 
dreamworks is the first studio to prove that they've got the stuff of success , and that they're capable of challenging disney . 
the story is also well-written , and the characters voiced with talent . 
for the most part , the plot follows its source material -- the book of exodus -- although only in the most general sense . 
the writers took a few creative liberties , and most do not damage the story in any way . 
in fact , the shakespearean relationship between moses ( val kilmer ) and the pharaoh rameses ( ralph fiennes ) makes the story more interesting if anything . 
moses , a hebrew , is saved from the slaughter of the firstborn sons by his mother when she sets him in a basket on the nile ; he floats into the pharaoh seti ( patrick stewart ) 's palace and is taken in by the royal family . 
moses grows up but learns of his heritage and flees into the desert , where he discovers the burning bush and is commissioned by god to return to egypt and free the slaves . 
by this time , rameses is now pharaoh , and the two brothers , now on opposite sides of the line , face off in a battle of wills and divine intervention . 
the cast of voices is most impressive , and also includes such noteables as sandra bullock , jeff goldblum , danny glover , and steve martin . 
the script does not have a lot of one-liners in it , and god is reduced to a voice that might well be mistaken for the same one that spoke to kevin costner in field of dreams , but overall the story is exciting and interesting . 
it's decidedly for an older crowd , and the tykes who haven't had a few years of religion class will be hopelessly lost . 
but for those who make the bid , the prince of egypt can be a great watch . 
capsule : a rock and roll fable , indeed . 
like a hubert selby , jr . novel filtered through equal parts damon runyan and bruce springsteen , and a ton of fun . 
streets of fire bills itself as " a rock and roll fable " , and the description is perfect . 
this is a stylish , great-looking , and breezily enjoyable movie that feels like a hubert selby , jr . , novel with a damon runyan rewrite , irected by bruce springsteen . 
noir is one of the few truly american movie genres , aside from the hollywood musical and the western . 
this is post-wwii brooklyn noir , for lack of a better label , with a generous injection of rock 'n roll and an all-around confrontational attitude . 
it all works . 
the plot is simplicity itself : rocker ellen aim ( diane lane ) is kidnapped by a vicious street gang , led by a bloodthirsty fellow named raven ( willem dafoe , very nasty ) . 
her old soldier flame ( played by michael pare ) comes back into town to save her , but doesn't count on a whole bunch of things going askew . 
that's about the entire plot , save for the spats with ellen's manager ( a hilarious rick moranis ) , an encounter with a doo-wop group that winds up becoming ellen's supporting act , and a whole gang of other fun little touches . 
but in movies like this , when is the plot important ? 
the movie is all style , all visuals and attitudes , quotable lines and posturing -- and it delivers all those things consistently and with great brio and pacing . 
no surprise that it was directed by walter hill ( 48 hrs . ) , who understands this kind of macho romanticism perfectly , and has put together a movie that's a mixture of times and sensibilities , but perfectly unified in tone . 
when was the last time you could say something like that about a movie , especially a movie where it seems like someone gets decked on the jaw ( * and * passes out ) every 2 . 63 minutes on cue ? 
streets of fire isn't the greatest movie ever made , but it occupies a totally unique little niche , and enjoys the position it has . 
anyone with a weakness for doo-wop , neon , motorcycles , rainy streets , the el , studebakers , gang pictures , lonely heroes , and a great-looking gal giving the microphone both lungs will eat this movie up . 
i did . 
jack nicholson has a funny way of playing characters with very few redeeming qualities , but whom you end up liking anyway . 
in as good as it gets , the character in question is melvin udall , a successful novelist with obsessive-compulsive disorder who seems bent on having as little contact with people around him as possible , except when he feels like being a royal pain in the you-know-where . 
he's mean . 
i mean really mean . 
the opening scene shows him shoving a little dog down the trash chute of his manhattan condominium . 
every day , melvin eats at the same cafe , sits at the same table , and gets served by the same waitress . 
you can tell that this is his favorite place to be a vicious nuisance , when his waitress carol ( helen hunt ) tells him he can just go sit in another section , and all the other waitresses just cringe . 
one day , melvin makes a comment that goes to far , and carol , genuinely hurt , comes down on him like a ton of bricks . 
at that point we find that she is not only the only person who can put up with him as a matter of course , but is also the only person who can get to him , too . 
another person who often crosses melvin's sights is simon ( greg kinnear ) , an artist who lives on melvin's floor . 
aside from the fact that he lives near the terror of the city , simon has the added benefit of being gay , making him a prime target . 
simon's friend frank ( cuba gooding , jr . ) , also gay , does not fare much better . 
when simon walks in on a pair of men robbing his apartment , he is brutally beaten and sent to the hospital , and frank , who has grown tired of seeing his friend take the verbal abuse dished out by his neighbor , intimidates melvin into watching after simon's dog while he convalesces . 
this is the same dog melvin had earlier shoved down the garbage . 
an interesting thing happens when melvin takes this dog in : melvin gets to like the dog , and the two develop an attachment which is the catalyst to melvin's softening up to the world around him . 
it doesn't happen overnight , but throughout the film , he bites his tongue here , cares a little there , and most miraculously , falls in love . 
one of the best elements of this film is watching melvin try to express feelings which are not the usual negative ones he so often shares with others . 
he's traveling terra incognita here , and it shows . 
good performances are turned in by all principal players in this film , especially by nicholson and hunt . 
they play well off of each other and have a genuine chemistry which makes it a pleasure to watch them on screen . 
greg kinnear , who is becoming known for his supporting film roles , is also very good at playing the vulnerable simon . 
he gives a short monologue about what it means for him to be an artist , and delivers it with such inspiration and conviction that you actually get to feel some of what he feels . 
cuba gooding jr . performs with a hyped-up level of energy which contrasts nicely with that of kinnear , and comes through with a near constant comic performance . 
the screenplay , by mark andrus and james l . brooks , is clever , touching , and funny . 
the best part about it , however , is that it is filled with characters we care about because they are actually interesting . 
melvin is a man we can't quite figure out , but whose mannerisms and quirky qualities capture our attention . 
carol is a working woman living with her mother , trying to take care of a child with a debilitating respiratory problem . 
simon is a man who is a success in his circle of peers , but who is still not accepted by much of society . 
combined with the talent of the actors , these characters make the film . 
the one noticeable area where the film is lacking , however , is the absence of cuba gooding , jr . through the second half . 
his character makes an exit which is supposed to be temporary , but the film ends before his return , leaving his relationship with simon and melvin unresolved . 
i would have liked to have seen more of his character in general , in addition to a part in the film's conclusion . 
there's one actor , who will probably not be recognized by any awards , but who contributes greatly to many of the movie's best scenes and who deserves mention . 
this is that little dog . 
he plays such a pivotal role to melvin's character development , actually serves to forward the plot , and has some absolutely scene-stealing moments , that it is hard to believe he is simply an animal . 
award or no , however , when even the dog puts in a good performance , you know you've got an outstanding movie . 
 " i've been told by several people , 'you're old fashioned . 
you want to do everything by hand , ' " topiary gardener george mendonca complains , defending his continued resort to hand shears in trimming his intricately privet-sculpted animal creations . 
 " this is the only way you can do it and do it right . " 
snip , snip . 
 " some people believe that we are gonna replace ourselves by building these machines , and that may be , " muses mit robot scientist rodney brooks , who builds robots that run on instinct . 
 " there may not be a place for humans in the future , if we're really successful . " 
 " you feel that there's a and looking directly into errol morris's camera . 
 " i know you are . 
you know i am . " 
in some ways the slickest film yet from nonfiction auteur morris ( the thin blue line , a brief history of time ) , fast , cheap & out of control is reportage of the highest order . 
journalism students should dream of making connections like these . 
cross-cutting among interviews and filmed segments , morris traces the lives of four disparate professionals who seem to share nothing but an immersion in their work , and then threads them around one another in an intricate quadruple helix . 
the fun is settling into your theater seat and wondering just what the hell one story can possibly have to do with the other . 
what morris manages is something akin to an intellectual magic trick , an interrogative sleight of hand . 
one of the things that feels different about an errol morris documentary -- besides the always-striking visuals -- is the interview style , where subjects seem to look directly at the viewer . 
weary of pressing his cheek against the camera lens to get this effect during conversations , morris developed an elaborate double-camera gadget he calls , half-jokingly , the interrotron . 
through a rig that uses a pair of teleprompters to project video images of the interviewer for the subject and vice versa , these folks talk , startlingly , right to the camera -- to the video image of morris , and by extension to the audience . 
the gardener wonders whether , after his death , anyone will be interested in maintaining the garden that he's devoted half his life to tending . 
the robot scientist is more than a little pleased to note that his creations may be primal examples of what an insect or even an animal is -- a complicated set of sensory receptors . 
the mole rat specialist is delighted to catalog the ways in which these vermin animals behave like insects , and notes that they may be more suited to long-term survival than people . 
and the circus trainer pines for a long-lost ideal that was exemplified by world-renowned trainer and showman clyde beatty , who starred in such serials as zombies of the stratosphere ( excerpted at some length here , with affection ) . 
starting to detect the patterns ? 
fast , cheap & out of control contains a multitude of parallels and tiny intersections , culminating in what feels like an elegy ( the film is dedicated to morris's late mother and stepfather ) . 
the film is balanced on that airy precipice dividing the already musty past from the alternately exhilarating and terrifying space that is the future . 
 ( the title is taken from brooks' wish that nasa would send a payload of hundreds of expendable robots to scurry about the martian surface , creating a sort of road map for the terrain -- fast , cheap , and out of control . ) 
with able assists from editors karen schmeer and shondra merrill and cinematographer robert richardson ( oliver stone's longtime collaborator ) , this becomes a cinematic contraption that's a wonder of narrative divergence and coherence . 
 ( further enhancing the picture's wacky intellectual mood is the playful score by alloy orchestra founder caleb sampson . ) 
different story threads inform and comment on one another with the serene inscrutability of a kieslowski film , or a surrealist dream . 
by cobbling together out of these motley musings a thesis on the nature of craftsmanship , invention , and existence itself , morris reveals the presence of cosmic themes -- creation , evolution , death -- in earthbound lives . 
at the same time , and just as significantly , he pays tribute to a consuming passion for one's work . 
this breakdown of the dichotomy between the everyday and the extraordinary is likely as profound as anything you'll encounter in pop culture this year , and the visuals cry out for the big screen . 
don't miss it . 
-------------------------------------------------------------- directed by errol morris edited by karen schmeer and shondra merrill cinematography by robert richardson music by caleb sampson u . s . , 1997 -------------------------------------------------------------- 
the deer hunter , directed by michael cimino , is truly one of the greatest movies ever made . 
a captivating drama about the lives of a group of friends from a small russian-american pennsylvania community , the deer hunter promises to be one of those movies that you will never forget . 
in this academy award winner for best picture of 1978 , outstanding performances are turned in by all actors , and cimino's brilliant directing provides the perfect vision into the character's lives . 
the first act of the film provides us with an inside look into the lives of a group of men from a small community who work and hang out together . 
michael , portrayed perfectly by robert de niro , is shown early on as the natural leader of the group . 
after a days work , the men leave their jobs at a factory to head down to the local bar , where john ( george dzundza ) works . 
three of the men , michael , steven ( john savage ) , and nick ( christopher walken ) will be leaving shortly for vietnam , but not before steven gets married . 
after the marriage , the group , including axel ( chuck aspegren ) , spend one last day on a hunting trip , one of their favorite past-times . 
this sequence of events enables us to view the lifestyle of a normal group of men , who will be suddenly and permanently affected by the ravages and separations of war . 
the wedding scenes , although criticized by many as being quite long , actually enhance even more the purpose of the first act . 
the outstanding performances by de niro , walken , streep , savage , and cazale , who died very shortly after the filming of the movie was completed , really begin to shine through and promise not to halt in the near future . 
the second act of the movie begins with the trio of men on the front lines in vietnam , stationed in a south vietnamese village being attacked by the viet cong . 
the men are eventually captured and held in a floating prison on a river . 
this prison , run by the v . c . , 
initiates the horrifying scenes in the movie , where the prisoners are forced to play russian roulette against each other . 
steven , who is emotionally marred by this turn of events , is secluded in a tiger cage with water up to his face when he refuses to participate . 
michael shows his leadership again by convincing nick that the only way that steven will survive is if the two friends play against each other , and moreover , they must play with 3 bullets in the gun . 
personally , i felt that de niro's absolutely gripping portrayal really was displayed in a brilliant way in these and the following scenes . 
the men are eventually able to escape , but are separated . 
michael is able to get steven , who ends up losing his legs , to medical care , while nick finds his way to saigon and a u . s . army hospital . 
michael returns home and does not feel at all like a hero . 
he wants to avoid the celebrations and recognition that his friends would like to bestow upon him . 
he assumes that nick is still lost in vietnam . 
the third act concentrates more on walken's character , who eventually stumbles upon a small gambling operation where the game is , again , russian roulette . 
only in this game , you play for money . 
michael has learned that nick is possibly still alive and returns to saigon to attempt to find him . 
the two narrowly find each other at the russian roulette games , but do not link up until michael discovers nick participating in the games and tries to bring him home . 
a very emotional , and , for many , a very disturbing movie , the deer hunter is a truly magnificent movie that should not be missed . 
the greatest performances possible are turned in by all actors , and cimino's directing , which is considered to be at his all-time best in this film , is equally dazzling . 
do not miss this film , it will captivate and astound you . 
with storytelling this compelling , who needs books ? 
based on the book by author james ellroy , l . a . confidential is probably one of the best piece of work produced by hollywood in recent years . 
together with director curtis hanson ( the hand that rocks the cradle , the river wild ) whom ellroy corroborated closely throughout the shooting of the film , resulted in a movie with a plot and and script so tight , an atom would have to squeeze itself through . 
set in the 50s , the story revolves around 3 policemen of vivid personalities . 
jack vincennes ( spacey ) is the cop who is more concerned on busting with fame and stardom ala hollywood style , concentrating heavily on work which will attract him media attention . 
there is also the young hot-shot rookie , ed exley ( pearce ) , fresh out of the academy and all-out to carve a name for himself in the footsteps of his legendary cop father . 
the tough and unnerving bud white ( crowe ) , a cop who believes in justice , the swift and violent way . 
3 policemen , distinct in their characters and paths but all of them working in a place where there is no real distinction between good and evil . 
when his partner is murdered on the day of his resignation , bud sets out to find the people responsible but unwittingly delved himself into something more than just a simple robbery murder . 
even after exley receives a promotion for his work on the murder case , happenings began to link itself to the murder . 
the 3 eventually reach a point of convergence when what actually began as a personal investigation turns out to be an uncovering of a complex web of organised-crime in hollywood . 
the last time i remember a film so clever and compelling was when i watched the usual suspects . 
in l . a . confidential , you do not get the shock and cleverness as the former but it has a lot more of `story' going for it . 
there is not a single moment in the film in which i felt was slow at all . 
surprisingly , though spacey did a very convincing job as the street-wise vincennes , the movie was carried mostly by the two rather `unknowns' , pearce and crowe . 
pearce's exley is cool and calculative in his actions and there is a slight hint of val kilmer in his appearance . 
crowe's bud white is the most impressive of all ; head-strong and temperamental , he should obtain some sort of recognition for his work here . 
superb acting . , wonderful storytelling and one of the best climaxing gunfights ever . 
easily the best hollywood piece for 1997 . 
synopsis : committed to an asylum , the marquis de sade ( rush ) continues to publish pornographic literature , aided by young maid madeleine ( winslet ) . 
abbe coulmier ( phoenix ) , who runs the hospital , disapproves of the stories , but humours him in the hope of achieving a cure . 
de sade's craft and life are threatened when the emperor dispatches dr royer-collard ( michael caine ) to stop the marquis' work , permanently . 
review : " quills " is an exploration of the marquis de sade : his madness , his cruelty and his perversion , his obsession with sex in any form , no matter how obscene . 
but " quills " also details the marquis' determination : to write in spite of the obstacles put in his path , and to propagate his words to the masses . 
the extent to which de sade is willing to go to practise his trade is amongst the movie's most intriguing elements , as when de sade scribes a story in his own blood , or narrates a tale via of a chain of fellow inmates , cell to cell . 
to provide a contrast with the marquis , wright involves him with two very different characters . 
one is the abbe , a handsome , charming and kindly man whose desires are stymied by his oath to god . 
the abbe lusts for madeleine , but it is the wizened marquis who is able to have her . 
and then there is royer-collard , a hypocrite who in truth is as sadistic as any of the marquis' motley creations . 
rush is splendid as de sade , utterly inhabiting the character . 
kaufman's direction is fine , and he is able to bring a sense of bizarre humour to the grim proceedings . 
the plot itself is rather mundane and plays out unsurprisingly , but this is virtually unimportant . 
for two hours , " quills " acquaints us with the marquis de sade -- and , more frightening still , allows us brief insight into his scatological soul . 
with more and more television shows having gay characters , and even the infamous " ellen " sitcom being centered on the life of a lesbian , the movie industry too seems to be gaining more and more homosexual based plot lines . 
the birdcage was critically acclaimed , as was this years chasing amy . 
then along came in & out , and all three of these films are on my top ten list for the years in which they were released . 
it's also noticeable that this " alternative lifestyle " becomes less and less taboo as the years go by , and it seems that using comedy as a medium is proving a worthwhile effort . 
while it's a very serious issue to many , it is the comedies that people are flocking to see and that are gaining notoriety . 
but the way we're using comedy to present homosexuality is also changing quite dramatically . 
while the gay community was once very stereotyped and used to laugh * at * , it is more and more becoming something we laugh * with * , and when a movie like in & out comes along , it is something that both heterosexuals and homosexuals should be able to thoroughly enjoy . 
it doesn't poke fun at the lifestyle , it simply uses it to all it's comedic capacity , just as love , sex , marriage , birth , death , and anything else has been . 
the idea for in & out was born the day tom hanks won his oscar for portraying an aids-afflicted gay man in philadelphia . 
if you remember , during his acceptance speech , hanks gave a highly emotional tribute to the gay community , and even sighted a former gay teacher of his as a major inspiration in his life . 
it's a serious and touchy subject , but producer scott rudin viewed it as the setting for a potentially hilarious comedy , and pitched it to screenwriter paul rudnick . 
it's true that if this same film had been written by a heterosexual , it may have been more controversial , but because it was written by an openly gay writer , the prerogative was set . 
kevin kline , who only seems to become more and more acclaimed , stars as howard brackett , a high school english teacher in the small , picturesque town of greenleaf , indiana . 
after a three-year engagement to fellow teacher emily montgomery ( joan cusack ) , a wedding date has been set , and the hubbub surrounding it is almost as big as that surrounding another huge story - greenleaf high graduate cameron drake ( matt dillon ) is up for a best actor oscar . 
the small town eagerly awaits both events , and both seem quite astronomical , but little does anyone know how much one will affect the other . 
when cameron drake is announced the winner , the excitement is heightened as he pays tribute to his high school english teacher , mr . brackett . 
everyone is cheering back in greenleaf - that is until cameron tacks on those three calamitous words , " and he's gay . " 
the town becomes silent as the entire population joins in a simultaneous jaw drop . 
the thing is , nobody , including howard , can understand how cameron came to that conclusion , and such wild and unexpected news can only wreak havoc in such a conservative american haven such as greenleaf . 
naturally the questions pour from howard's fiancee , parents ( debbie reynolds & wilford brimley ) , students , and the high school's principal , tom halliwell ( bob newhart ) , and the evidence starts to become more and more obvious : howard is clean , neat , honest , sincere , a romantic , and perhaps the most incriminating fact , he loves barbara streisand . 
the frenzy isn't helped any when camera crews from every conceivable news magazine and " entertainment tonight " wannabe show up at greenleaf high the very next morning . 
one particular reporter is peter malloy ( tom selleck ) of " inside entertainment " , who unlike the collage of other reporters , wants to spend a whole week in the life of howard brackett , including coverage of his wedding . 
the intrusion is all but welcome by howard , who is going more and more out of his mind with each passing minute . 
it seems that no matter where he turns , a camera is being shoved in his face and questions regarding homosexuality are being tossed to him like frisbees . 
the dominoes begin to tumble as howard's closest friends begin acting different and principal halliwell hints at a possible termination of employment should howard indeed be gay . 
it all sounds very devastating , and it would be if it weren't presented with near-perfection by one of this year's most delightful ensemble casts . 
kline seems only to improve with age , and he is downright perfect here . 
the great thing about this film is that every single character has a moment to shine , and they use it wonderfully . 
every single actor turns in one of their best performances ever . 
dillon has never been so likeable , cusack has never seemed so perfect for a role , and brimley , reynolds , and newhart all provide huge laughs when they're up to bat . 
rudnick's script is heavily laced with wit and humor , and you'll likely find yourself laughing out loud for a solid ninety minutes . 
while in & out doesn't carry enough to give it four stars , it remains one of the best done films of the year , all-around . 
the script is exuberant , the actors are absolutely top- notch , and we're allowed just the perfect blend of heart-tugging so as not to bog down the laughs . 
it remains a solid comedy throughout its entirety , yet we're still allowed a sappily touching ending . 
despite it's subject matter , and one scene that comes almost too close for comfort on explaining gay sex , this is a movie that everyone could , and should , enjoy . 
frank oz , best known as a voice talent for muppets , directs this film quite delightfully , using all the potential rudnick's script has to offer , which turns out to be quite a bit . 
check this one out . 
you'll have a gay old time . 
with his last two films - shine and snow falling on cedars - australian director scott hicks has proven his cinematic flashbacks to be some of the best out there , and his latest , hearts in atlantis , is no different . 
its structure - beginning and ending in present day with one long flashback in the middle - is similar to the green mile , which is a bit ironic considering both were based on stephen king books . 
the parallels don't end there , either . 
atlantis was adapted by william goldman , who had previously penned the big-screen version of misery and is in the process of working on the script for king's dreamcatcher . 
even the film's content is a bit reminiscent of mile . 
in fact , it's the perfect blend of the feel-good '60s nostalgia of stand by me ( also by king ) and mystical power hokum of mile . 
king's atlantis is a book comprised of five related short stories , but the main focus here is on the first ( and longest ) tale , called low men in yellow coats ( the film's title comes from the second chapter ) . 
it's set in 1960 harwich , connecticut , where 11-year-old bobby garfield ( anton yelchin ) lives in a boarding house run by his cold , self-centered mother elizabeth ( hope davis , joe gould's secret ) , who seems to care more about her wardrobe than her son . 
bobby spends his time with his two closest friends , john sullivan ( will rothhaar ) and tomboy carol gerber ( mika boorem ) , who become something like the kevin , paul and winnie of harwich . 
when a new tenant moves into the vacant room , the fatherless bobby finds a male role model in ted brautigan ( anthony hopkins , hannibal ) , a mysterious stranger who is vague enough about his past to make bobby's mom suspicious enough to at least momentarily turn her head away from the mirror . 
ted teaches his young neighbor about the wonders of literature ( after his cheapskate mother gives him a library card for his birthday ) , dispenses prophetic words of wisdom and even pays bobby one dollar a week to read him the local newspaper and keep his eyes peeled for the low men , a group of people chasing ted to exploit his special powers . 
i won't go into what these powers are , but they're considerably toned down from the book ( and don't involve black stuff flying out of ted's mouth , a la mile ) . 
atlantis' present-day setting which bookends the film is based on the novel's final chapter , titled heavenly shades of night are falling , and features david morse ( in yet another connection to the green mile ) as a married , middle-aged bobby who learns of the death of both of his childhood friends and returns to the dilapidated boarding house in which he spent his formative years . 
atlantis is nowhere near as flashy as hicks' cedars , which is disappointing but understandable considering the switch from the completely amazing robert richardson to the occasionally amazing piotr sobocinski , the oscar-nominated cinematographer behind krzysztof kieslowski's red . 
the acting is solid from everyone , including hopkins , who never once makes you think of dr . lecter . 
most impressive are youngsters yelchin and boorem , who both had tiny parts in along came a spider . 
while i didn't really have much of a problem with goldman's screenplay , i do need to point out at least one inconsistency . 
goldman , for those of you who don't read premiere , writes what seems like an annual criticism of everybody else's films , carefully explaining why they all suck , make no sense and insult their audiences , while somehow failing to mention the crap that he's penned ( like the general's daughter ) . 
it's mean-spirited but fun to read , mostly on account of nobody else in hollywood having the balls to say anything remotely negative about anybody else in the business ( including michael jackson , o . j . 
and robert blake ) . 
in atlantis , which is supposed to be told through the eyes of young bobby , one would assume he would have to be in each scene in order to have the memory to which to flash back . 
well , he's not , and it doesn't make sense . 
1 : 41 - pg-13 for violence and thematic elements 
corey yuen's latest film , " hero " is notable on two fronts . 
first this is the film to bring back the shaw brothers studio back to the forefront of film production . 
secondly , the film is the re-discovery of yuen biao . 
the film opens around the end of the qin dynasty , when many immigrants were making their way to shanghai . 
poverty and crime rule most of china . 
a young man , ma wing jing and his brother enter the fabled city and become laborers at the pier . 
tam see is the most powerful gangster in town , having control of the center of the city and having an alliance with the british army . 
wing jing and see become friends during a confrontation . 
their friendship grows as both men start to realize their dreams , wing jing's to be a powerful and wealthy man , and see to settle down with a woman he can truly love . 
wing jing meets the singer at the club ( jessica hester ) and falls in love with her , not realizing that she is the star attraction . 
after stealing her picture from a display , wing jing and his brother plot to impress her . 
first they rob two foreigner's of their money and cloths , and set up a midnight rendezvous . 
unfortunately , wing jing has run afoul of a rival gangster , yeung seung who has bribed the police in an effort to gain control of see's night club . 
the two bothers are arrested and held until they manage to escape just before dawn . 
jessica , having waited outside in the cold with her manager all night , gives up and returns home . 
see decides to retire , he gives the night club to wing jing , as repayment for saving his life during an attempted murder . 
see arranges the trade and ask his lover ( valerie chow ) to take care of wing jing . 
unfortunately , she has sided with yeung seung . 
the performances in the film are all top notch , with fine turns by takeshi kaneshiro as ma wing jing and jessica hester and valerie chow . 
the comic turn by yuen wah , previously known as the mad vietnamese in samo hung's " eastern condors " , is a marvelous surprise . 
his gift for comedy is marvelously understated and hilarious . 
the stand-out is by yuen biao who returns to the screen after a string of disappointments , with a stellar performance . 
his tam see is a triad boss who knows that his time is coming to an end but still has the cunning and craft to uphold his pride . 
his gangster is almost non-violent , in that he only retaliates , never instigates violence . 
but when the time comes to fight , yuen biao has never looked better . 
corey yuen directs the film with a maturity and a sense of pacing that has been lacking in hong kong movies as of late . 
the lighting , cinematography and staging of the film are beautiful to watch . 
the action scenes do not disappoint either . 
this is the most aggressive and inventive martial art choreography i've seen in some time , actually surpassing jackie chan's work in both 'rumble in the bronx' and 'first strike' . 
the special effects team deserves praise for a fantastic job of making the impossible look possible . 
an early fight between takeshi kaneshiro and yuen biao on the back of a horse is to be seen to be believed . 
also noteworthy is the score for the film , done in a marvelously lush orchestral style , not representative of most hong kong fare . 
i would dare to say it ranks as high as the scores for both " titanic " and " rosewood " as best of the year . 
all in all , " hero " marks a grand return to filmmaking for shaw brothers . 
this is the film that gives us faith that hong kong cinema is alive and flourishing . 
synopsis : in this cultural exploration , a chinese american computer engineer named fang ( peter wang ) decides to take a month-long vacation to visit his sister mrs . chao ( shen guanglan ) , her husband mr . chao ( hy xiaoguang ) , and their teenage daughter lili ( li qinqin ) in beijing after 30 years of separation . 
fang brings his asian american wife grace ( sharon iwai ) and his college-aged son paul ( kelvin han yee ) along , both of whom don't speak chinese . 
the encounter between the two families allows the audience to compare the eastern and western cultures as well as the ambitions of individual characters . 
opinion : sometimes a film is plot driven . 
sometimes it's a character sketch . 
a great wall ( 1986 ) can be called a culture sketch , as opposed to a character sketch because it gently compares a chinese american family to a beijing family . 
fang's family is thoroughly americanized . 
fang is an upper middle class professional who enjoys jogging and argues with his boss . 
his wife can't cook chinese . 
his son has a white girlfriend and complains of racism when fang encourages him to befriend an asian girl . 
meanwhile fang's beijing sister advocates absolute loyalty to the 'work unit . ' 
her husband is a retired official who has heard rumors of american depravity ( homosexuals running the streets ) , and her daughter lili longs for american freedoms in a youth culture where studying for college entrance exams is the most important thing in life . 
the two families spend a month slowly learning about each other . 
there is no ultimate 'answer' or final comprehensive understanding after the month-long vacation . 
the film is neither here nor there ; it's a neutral , meandering , gentle , portrait of life on both sides . 
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
on december 20 , 1996 , amidst all the year-end oscar bait releases from the major studios , miramax's genre label dimension films quietly released a sly little ensemble slasher flick titled scream . 
although the teen horror market had been given up for all-but-dead in recent years , the film shocked industry observers by scoring consistently high box office returns , eventually topping $100 million domestic and becoming one of the most successful films of its type in history , while delighting audiences by finally presenting a set of knowing slasher flick protagonists who were aware of the all the standard cliches associated with the genre . 
the sleeper success of scream sent shockwaves through the industry -- suddenly , everybody was looking for hip , inexpensive fright films that might be able to reap similar fortunes . 
the strategy of casting young tv stars to draw the youth demographic was given a boost . 
scream director wes craven , previously best known as the creator of new line's a nightmare on elm street film series , was thrust back into the limelight . 
and scream's rookie scribe , kevin williamson , burst onto the film scene in stunning fashion . 
it's hard to understate this last point . 
mr . williamson has , based upon his produced screenplays as of this writing ( scream , i know what you did last summer from october 1997 , and now scream 2 ) , enjoyed a meteoric rise to fame , quickly become the most well-known screenwriter amongst the entertainment weekly-reading , box office figure-watching youth culture since -- well , since that quentin tarantino guy ( whom , it is said , has also achieved some renown as a director ) . 
indeed , in a singularly freakish oddity , it is the screenwriter , mr . williamson , and not the director that has been receiving the lion's share of acclaim for the success of scream , and the print advertisements for scream 2's theatrical release are similarly indicative of his increasing prominence : while the traditional " a film by wes craven " drapes the film's title in the ads , right below it ( in equal sized font , yet ) reads " written by kevin williamson " , an affirmation of the screenwriter's contribution to the project which may be unprecedented . 
 ( i can envision the board of wga , licking their chops at this coup and counting the days until their goal of " a film by " is attained . ) 
and , much like mr . tarantino's screenwriting , mr . williamson's work is vaguely unconventional , incorporating both contemporary pop culture references and allusions to other films into the dialogue of his characters . 
in scream , they satirically discussed other horror films ; here in the sequel , the characters discuss the relative merits of film sequels . 
scream was written in 1995 during the infamous bob dole rampage against hollywood , and mr . williamson's rejection of this tirade clearly influenced the writing in both that film and this sequel . 
while the sequel was planned from the outset -- a treatment of scream 2 was included when mr . williamson sold the screenplay for scream -- the basic premise for the film and the reunion of the surviving characters nevertheless seems extremely artificially contrived , and it's only at about the film's midway point when it becomes engaging . 
like its predecessor , scream 2 opens with a splashy , eye-grabbing prologue which only vaguely ties into the film's principal narrative ; this time around , we're following the exploits of a young couple ( jada pinkett and omar epps ) attending a riotously gleeful sneak preview screening of stab ( a running film-within-a-film gag where the " true life " events behind the first film has been turned into a movie ) . 
however , although it tries hard and has some good ideas -- the nightmarishly enthusiastic audience in the film vaguely reminded me of the one i was sharing the theatre with , and i was certainly thinking about gutting the overly-noisy person a few seats away myself after about fifteen minutes -- the prologue is a pale imitation of the bravura opening sequence in the original with drew barrymore ( where her performance not only convinced me that she * could * act , but was so good that it would rank among the best performances in a horror film that i've ever seen ) . 
there are too many knowing , hip pop-culture references crammed into the scream 2 sequence , and the setup isn't nearly as cleverly frightening as scream's ; while the first film's preface dizzyingly built up to a final shot that was exhilaratingly terrifying , the payoff here is almost campily theatrical . 
flash to the campus of a smalltown ohio college , where returning characters sidney ( neve campbell ) and randy ( jamie kennedy ) have relocated for their studies and to escape the notoriety from the events in the first film . 
the murders which open this film result in reuniting the survivors -- single-minded tabloid tv reporter gale weathers ( courteney cox ) roars into town to cover the breaking story , while ever-awkward former deputy dewey riley ( david arquette ) flies in to protectively guard over sidney . 
they're joined by cotton weary ( liev schreiber ) , who was falsely accused of homicide in a cameo appearance during the first film ; his role here is significantly expanded . 
the film incidentally provides surprisingly little backstory , although i suppose a good case can be made that it really isn't necessary -- not because so many people have seen the first installment , but because this is , after all , a sequel to a slasher film : what do you * think * happened to these characters in the prior movie ? 
there's a lot of new faces on the scene too : sidney's new boyfriend , derek ( jerry o'connell ) and her new roommate hallie ( elise neal ) , randy's fellow film student mickey ( timothy olyphant ) , gale's newly-assigned nervous cameraman joel ( duane martin ) , omnipresent local journalist debbie salt ( laurie metcalf ) , co-ed cici cooper ( ms . buffy herself , sarah michelle gellar ) , and a pair of simpering sorority sisters ( rebecca gayheart and sirens' portia di rossi ) . 
any of these characters could be the killer -- or for that matter , could be the next victim . 
as is seemingly becoming a regular staple of a kevin williamson screenplay , the narrative is once again framed around the increasingly-flimsy premise of a whodunit . 
one problem that scream didn't have was keeping you interested in the identity of the killer . 
here ( and to some extent in i know what you did last summer ) , mr . williamson's screenplay seems slightly hampered by trying to turn the identity of the killer into a mystery . 
the film occasionally becomes so bogged down with misdirection that you can sense it straining at the seams to try and drop red herrings left and right at the expense of its thriller elements . 
 ( it doesn't help matters any that the killer's alter-ego is fairly obvious from the get-go . ) 
indeed , the finale plays as full-out camp when the villain is finally unmasked , frothing at the mouth with glazed eyes . 
this is one of those cases where the villain goes on such an endless diatribe about their machinations , scheming , and motivation , that you actually get bored listening and just want them all to get on with it . 
while the basic setup and premise for the film is fairly contrived , the aspect where it's head-and-shoulders above its predecessor is in its suspense sequences . 
they're staged much more imaginatively here ( save for the first post-prologue murder , which is handled in such a mediocre , conventional fashion that it seems to be culled directly from the predictable 1980s slasher flicks that the first film satirized ) , and are much more fun to watch . 
it's hard to hold back a smile during a giddy scene where sidney and her companion have to climb over the incapacitated killer in order to escape from a car wreck , and a cat-and-mouse chase involving gale and dewey in a campus sound lab is very nicely staged , although its ultimate resolution is hilariously overblown . 
in terms of its characters , the strong part of the film is the interesting relationship between gale and dewey ( who ambles onto the screen accompanied by his very own theme music ) . 
their verbal sparring at the outset provides much humour -- an exchange where dewey defensively rebukes charges of a perceived aura of incompetency is well-written -- and there's a curiously endearing aspect about their relationship amidst all the mayhem and bloodshed . 
on the other hand , sidney is pretty dull here . 
she doesn't have any compelling presence , and there's nothing particularly interesting about her this time around to make us care about her other than that she's the returning heroine . 
given this , and the fact that there's no strong second banana character for sidney ( elise neal's role isn't nearly substantive enough to adequately fill rose mcgowan's shoes ) , it's no wonder why the roles for gale and dewey have been significantly augmented for this installment of the film . 
what surprises me the most about scream 2 is its zealousness in decimating its cast . 
the film's mounting body count bears out the fact that * no * character is safe ( well , * almost * ) ; while in principal i applaud this bold policy , at some point you've got to be wondering about just how many characters will make it to the next sequel . 
 ( i was particularly surprised with the untimely demise of one in particular , whose casting for the next installment of the series would've seemed obvious . ) 
but hey , as rose mcgowan's character said in the first film : " no , please don't kill me , mr . ghostface -- i want to be in the sequel ! " 
look what that got her . 
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
it's startling to consider that it was only a few years ago that film distributors would worriedly rearrange their summer release schedules in order to give the annual disney animated feature juggernaut a wide berth . 
the lion king had just cracked $300 million domestic in gross to become one of the most profitable ventures in film history , continuing to build on a sturdy base left by prior flicks aladdin and beauty and the beast . 
since then , though , disney's animated features have shown an unbroken string of diminishing returns , with pocahontas , the hunchback of notre dame , and this year's hercules successively proving less and less potent . 
with the once seemingly-impregnable disney stranglehold on the market share suddenly looking mighty vulnerable , and faced with their first serious competition in the animated film market from fox's anastasia , disney has brought xmas home early by dusting off the feature which sparked the modern revival of feature animation , the little mermaid . 
while the animation for the film is , as is typically the case for disney films , unquestionably top-notch , the magic in the little mermaid is not its animation , but the wonderful innocence of its story and its rousingly superb music . 
the film's storyline is fairly straightforward -- young teen falls for handsome man , father disapproves and assigns hapless chaperone to his daughter , teen disobeys father and goes to desperate lengths to win her man -- except in this case , the chaperone is a crab , the teen is a young mermaid , and the object of her desire is a human prince . 
what makes the little mermaid so affecting and so emotionally resonant is the richness and charm of its characters and the sheer clarity and honest simplicity of their emotions . 
from the moment mermaid ariel lays her eyes on prince eric , she's resolutely smitten , and she's such a pure and endearing character that one can't help but invest their heart with her . 
this simple but touching love story , coupled with a healthy dose of smart humour , makes the little mermaid a remarkably captivating picture . 
one of the interesting things about the little mermaid is something which now curiously dates it : the voices cast for its motley crew of characters . 
this film was produced just before the distracting concept of using celebrity voices became in vogue , which started to a certain degree with beauty and the beast and was irrevocably exacerbated by robin williams' much-heralded turn in aladdin ; by the release of the lion king and henceforth , the majority of characters in the animated films were voiced by celebrities . 
while it's understandable that animated features lacking the name-recognition or drawing power of disney ( say , balto's use of kevin bacon and bridget fonda , or even anastasia's showcasing of meg ryan and john cusack ) would be forced to turn to this strategy in order to hype their products , it's unfortunate that even disney has embraced this policy . 
do we really need to hear , say , demi moore as esmerelda in the hunchback of notre dame ? 
is the film's entertainment value really augmented by hearing a recognizable voice , rather than a voice which best suits the role ? 
 ( i'm not exactly on the edge of my seat for eddie murphy in the upcoming mulan . ) 
fortunately , the performers who voice the characters in the little mermaid , although perhaps more obscure , are impeccably cast . 
chief among them is jodi benson , a 1992 tony nominee for her stage work in crazy for you , who voices the film's heroine ariel to perfection ; with a wonderfully expressive speaking voice full of youthful vigor , and gorgeous singing voice , ms . benson provides a most engaging anchor for the film . 
 ( she's the only reason i'd even consider catching flubber . ) 
similarly , samuel e . wright is terrific in the showy role of sebastian , the weary guardian crab . 
he easily milks his lovable character's comic moments for all they're worth , and his rendering of two of the little mermaid's big tunes -- " under the sea " and " kiss the girl " -- have become the stuff of legend . 
pat carrol is deliciously villainous and vampy as the evil sea-witch ursula , while kenneth mars' booming voice conveys the stern yet affectionate authority of ariel's father , king triton . 
in large roles and small ( edie mcclurg as dotting busybody carlotta is ideal , and rene auberjonois has great fun with his exuberant french chef ) , the little mermaid is impeccably cast . 
of course , the little mermaid will probably be best remembered for its remarkable collection of songs composed by the songwriting team of alan menken ( music ) and howard ashman ( lyrics ) , who had created little shop of horrors and would go on to compose beauty and the beast and aladdin for disney before mr . ashman's untimely death . 
not only are mr . menken's tunes unbearably catchy , but mr . ashman's charming lyrics are fully integrated into the film's storyline so that the songs are a virtual extension of the character's dialogue , and consequently work wonderfully within the context of the film . 
mr . menken's score for the film is equally top-notch ; the sequence where eric ( voiced by christopher daniel barnes ) and ariel tour his kingdom in a horse-drawn carriage becomes magical and wondrous with mr . menken's fine score . 
it appears that most people prefer the delightfully colourful production number for the calypso-styled " under the sea " as joyfully crooned by mr . wright , which won the academy award and golden globe awards for best song -- indeed , one of the many little joys in screening the film during its re-release was listening to children scattered throughout the audience singing along with the tune -- but my favourite is ms . benson's heartfelt rendition of the ballad " part of your world " , an achingly beautiful tune of yearning and hope ( wonderfully lyricized by mr . ashman ) which , accompanied by the film's most dazzlingly polished animation sequence , packs an emotional wallop which literally brought tears to my eyes . 
during the song's reprise , which builds to a crescendo with ariel arching on a rock as a wave crashes in , the cumulative effect is nothing short of breathtaking , and one becomes acutely aware that this single instance is one of the finest in animation history . 
as of this writing , november 1997 has come to an end , as has disney's limited 17-day re-release of the little mermaid . 
there's no question that the primary motivation for , if not the film's reissue itself , at least its timing , was to reinforce disney's dominance in the animation market and provide direct competition to fox's costly new upstart animation division and their first major venture , anastasia . 
in every respect , the re-release of the little mermaid appears to be a success -- the film's 1997 grosses have pushed its cumulative domestic gross over the magic $100 million mark ; the little mermaid proved to have remarkably strong drawing power for a film initially released only eight years ago and in many homes on video , pulling in close to $10 million in its opening weekend ; and although nobody could possibly expect the little mermaid to possibly defeat the aggressively-marketed anastasia in head-to-head competition , it siphoned enough from the fox film's opening weekend totals to keep anastasia from the coveted weekend leader spot , allowing for disney's odious flubber to sweep in on the subsequent week and wrestle the family demographic market share away . 
but although disney's motives in the reissue of the little mermaid were self-serving and protectionist , the real winner is the public . 
any reason to put this film back into theatres is a good one , and it's a true joy to see this heartwarming gem back on the silver screen . 
the little mermaid is the best film to come out of the disney's modern animation renaissance , and one of the greatest animated films ever made . 
this christmas , little ralphie parker ( peter billingsley ) wants nothing more than a red ryder bb gun under the tree . 
although cautioned by many that he will ? shoot his eye out' , ralphie remains optimistic , conjuring up a detailed scheme to get on the good side of his parents and teachers . 
it could be possible that no one has ever wanted anything with more passion than ralphie wants this bb gun , and the story of his eternal struggle is a charming one . 
`a christmas story' is a favorite among many during the holiday season , and boy , it is certainly easy to see why . 
ralphie's endless desire for the bb gun may transport you back to your childhood , when you were craving a certain gift for christmas and the anxiety was almost indescribable . 
evoking pleasant childhood memories is only one of the many things `a christmas story' does so well . 
here are a few features that make this film such a charming little package for everybody during the holiday season : 
1 ) period detail . 
this film is based on the memoirs of late humorist jean shepard , who shares his experiences as a young boy living in the 1940's with loving detail . 
shepard narrates from a first person point-of-view , divulging his various adventures one snowy december , in which visions of taking aim with his new bb gun replaced that of sugarplums dancing in his head . 
shepard's first-hand commentary of several situations is not only downright hilarious , but also witty and warm , with various metaphorical meanings that ring perfectly with the essence of comic timing . 
on top of that , young billingsley's stupefied reactions to each predicament is absolutely perfect in contrast with the narration . 
director bob clark captures the look and feel of the era with wonderful technicality . 
i can hardly imagine a more accurate depiction of what christmas for young ralphie must have been like . 
2 ) mom and dad . 
both melinda dillon ( as mom ) and darren mcgavin ( as ? the old man' ) are perfect in their roles . 
it's hard to fathom a more agreeable pair for the requirements of a story like this one , with each possessing at least one memorable trait that instantly separates them from the wooden caricatures that could have been featured . 
for instance , he is a bloodthirsty turkey hound , and she is forgiving and understanding when it comes to some serious issues . 
in portraying the writer as a persistent but mild-mannered young lad , peter billingsley has struck quite the chord . 
his performance is richly textured , making all of the humorous situations he stumbles into radiate with flavor and enjoyment . 
which brings us to . . . . 
3 ) the comic situations . 
there are plenty of memorable moments in `a christmas story' . 
moments that undoubtedly will improve in comic potency upon each new viewing , with so much more to explore and to cherish . 
i am particularly partial of the ? f-word scene' , in which ralphie blurts out the shocking four-letter obscenity while helping the old man in the yard . 
again , shepard's method of handling this amusing scenario is nothing short of comic wizardry . 
the numerous sequences that stick in one's mind include , of course , the famous department store santa scene - in which billingsley has some problems in telling old saint nick what he wants under the tree . 
i could go on , but i'll finish on this note : `a christmas story' is a standout among holiday movies , because it captures so much in a meager 90 minutes . 
not only is it funny , it's often genuinely hilarious . . . . not to mention warm , fluffy and touching in all the appropriate places . 
i plan on making `a christmas story' a christmas tradition . 
why don't you ? 
in intolerance , d . w . griffith told four different historical stories at the same time , cutting from one to the other . 
each of the stories builds to a fast-paced climax . 
in magnolia , paul thomas anderson tells several stories each just tangentially connected to the others . 
yet the stories and where they are going are all independent . 
what is strange about these stories is that they are all synchronized . 
each story builds to a tense moment ( or what appears to be intended to be a tense moment ) but then lets the tension dissolve . 
while the tension dissipates one character starts singing a song and in each plotline the major characters sing along , even though they are not in the same scene . 
then toward the end the stories each build to a tense moment again . 
it is almost as if the characters are somehow psychically linked . 
this creates some strange effects . 
the stories are about empty desperate people with dysfunctional relationships . 
the strands have varying degrees of bizarre content . 
we have the story of a dying man earl partridge ( jason robards ) wanting to get in touch with his son and make amends . 
phil parma ( philip seymour hoffman ) is his nurse who is frantic to help partridge achieve his final goal . 
partridge's young wife linda ( julianne moore ) is getting more and more anxious as partridge dies , but for an unsuspected reason . 
frank mackey ( tom cruise ) runs the kinds of self-help seminar that businesses like so much , but he aims his at teaching disaffected men how to be real shit-heels in dealing with women in an angry backlash to women's lib . 
officer jim kurring ( john c . reilly ) is a patrolman who has a need to feel he is making the world a better place . 
jimmy gator ( philip baker hall ) hosts a popular children's tv quiz show that really exploits and destroys children as we see from the stories of current quiz kid stanley spector ( jeremy blackman ) and former quiz kid donnie smith ( william h . macy ) . 
the film juggles all these stories for over three hours , but even after all this time not one story is resolved satisfactorily . 
each story moves toward a single bizarre common climax , but it is not one that seems to do much but derail each story . 
the common climax itself is ambiguous in many ways and it fails to really tie up any of the stories . 
the film seems to be built around strange events and weird history , but it really has little to do with the content of the stories , though they all are connected in part by one weird event . 
magnolia will probably bring some much deserved attention to paul thomas anderson , though in my opinion his two previous films , hard eight and boogie nights were better told stories . 
it is interesting that one starts to look forward to actors from anderson's company . 
john c . reilly seems to be a standard fixture . 
particularly notable is philip baker hall who gave a mesmerizing performance from the first scene of hard eight . 
here he several of the characters are mesmerizing , but that characteristic is not really used . 
as studies of characters these stories are each worth following . 
as well-rounded stories with a beginning , middle and end , they leave something to be desired . 
but the film is willing to do the unexpected and that helps make the film worth sitting through . 
i rate it a 7 on the 0 to 10 scale and a low +2 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
heavy spoiler . . . 
heavy spoiler . . . 
heavy spoiler . . . 
heavy spoiler . . . 
during the strange climactic event of the film we get multiple messages from the filmmaker that the event we are seeing really does happen . 
and in actual fact , it does . 
since biblical times rains of frogs have been interpreted as signs of displeasure of the gods . 
it is , however , a perfectly natural , if somewhat unnerving , phenomenon . 
the cause is associated with whirlwinds . 
we know that tornadoes over land can rip up land and even objects of some size from the ground and hurl them into the air , holding them aloft . 
the reader may remember the unfortunate cow in twister . 
smaller objects can be hurled high into the atmosphere and then be kept aloft by the updrafts for surprisingly long periods of time much as hail and chunks of ice are . 
when the whirlwind is over water , animals near the surface , frequently fish and frogs , may suffer the same fate . 
essentially they are vacuumed up by the whirlwind , held aloft by updrafts , and finally dropped elsewhere . 
so while the rain is possible , some doubts do creep in . 
the rain of frogs depicted in this film may be of greater scale than i had pictured for a rain of frogs . 
it seems unlikely the frogs would still be alive when dropped . 
it is not clear that geographic conditions are right for los angeles to have this sort of phenomenon . 
 ( frankly i have no idea on these points . ) 
otherwise the event was quite believable . 
what we see in this film is much more credible than the phenomena we saw in volcano . 
in the film it is left ambiguous if the rain is a sign from god since there are many references to exodus 8 : 2 . 
 " and the frogs shall come up both on thee and upon thy people , and upon all thy servants . " 
however a rain of frogs , though it feels biblical , is most definitely not a biblical portent . 
note that the previous verse says " and the river shall bring forth frogs abundantly which shall go up . . . , " 
so the bible is referring not to a rain but to an infestation from the river . 
the only other reference to frogs in the bible is as a symbol for uncleanness in revelation 16 : 13 . 
contact is the 1997 movie i've seen the most - five times to be exact . 
four of those times were on the big screen , but even on a tv , it's a very impressive film . 
the same can't be said for films like independance day , but that's because contact is a rare example in sci-fi filmmaking where the story is treated more importantly than the special effects , and all of us know looking back that id4 didn't offer much outside of some one-time delightful eye candy . 
contact's wonderfully presented story deals with ellie arroway ( jodie foster ) , a radio astronomer whose preference of study involves the outdated technique of " merely listening " to sounds out in space . 
her interest in the field of astronomy developed at a very young age , encouraged by her loving father , ted ( david morse ) , who let ellie use a small ham radio to pick up on frequencies and communicate with people as far away as pensacola , fl ( that was , of course , before the days of internet chat rooms ) . 
while everyone else uses modern technologies to aid them in the search for extra-terrestrial intelligence ( of which the program seti is an acronym for ) , ellie prefers to pop on a pair of headphones and see what she can pick up on , keeping the youthful magic and intrigue strongly alive . 
ellie's strong scientific basis essentially makes her an atheist , a belief likely influenced by the death of her father while she was still quite young . 
in puerto rico , she meets palmer joss ( matthew mcconaughey ) , a writer examining the effects of technology on the world's overall happiness ; a one- time seminary student who describes himself as " a man of the cloth , without the cloth " . 
despite the vast differences in opinion regarding a " supreme being " , ellie and palmer hit it off , and even take the time to sleep together . 
it's a weak and hurried relationship , but director zemeckis needs it to add to the plot later on . 
meanwhile , dr . david drumlin ( tom skerritt ) , who has authority over seti but finds the program a frivolous waste of time and money , is ready to pull the plug on any and all seti funding . 
this leaves the passionate ellie searching for new sponsors , eventually finding a setup in new mexico and leaving palmer with no explanation , and only a one night stand to remember . 
it is in this nm city where , several months later , ellie finally picks up on a strong signal from outer space , perhaps the most profound discovery in the history of science . 
when the signal is closely examined , many new developments spring up , and before long , drumlin is stepping in to take over the operation he once scoffed at . 
eventually , it is concluded that information in the signal may be blueprints for a transportation device used to teleport an earthling to vega ( where the signal seems to have originated ) . 
the media swarms , fanatics go further off the deep end , scientists clamor for new information , politicians huddle in discussion of appropriate actions to take , and presidents are morphed into a celluloid reality ( remember when zemeckis couldn't get enough of this in forrest gump ? ) . 
as if that weren't enough , ellie's discovery leads her to the nation's capital where she again runs into palmer . 
contact is based on the novel by carl sagan and deals heavily with the subject of science vs . religion . 
the impressive thing is how well both aspects are presented , with no signs of bias . 
arguments for both sides are intelligent , solid , and thought-provoking . 
when palmer joins a selection committee to choose an ambassador to vega ( of which ellie is a leading candidate ) , personal convictions play a more important role than love interests . 
the question is , can a person who doesn't believe in god truly be the best representative of earth when 90% of the planet * does * believe in a higher power ? 
even when the film wraps up , it's uncertain whether it's meant to play as an advocate for religion , science , both , or even neither , and in our modern day society where " right and wrong " is only opinion ( at least speaking " politically correctly " ) , the ambiguity is an incentive . 
don't get me wrong . 
as much as it sounds like it , contact isn't merely a theology class rolled into a reel of film . 
it's a * highly * enjoyable two and a half hours . 
despite its seemingly heavy issues , it's not a tedious undertaking to watch this film . 
the special effects are outstanding , though ( warning ! ) 
highly depreciated on the small screen . 
even so , some of the subtle visual effects ( that will likely go unnoticed by many ) are even more impressive than ones more recognizable as " sci-fi " . 
the storytelling is rich and complete , and although there are moments in the film that feel quite pretentious ( and at times , even hokey ) , it's easily one of the best 1997 films , and one of the best sci-fi films i've ever seen . 
this is zemeckis' best since back to the future , and for those of us who actually know that forrest gump was astronomically overrated , zemeckis now has real reason to boast . 
roberto benigni is a clown in the tradition of chaplin and keaton . 
this italian film star , best known in the united states for the poorly received son of the pink panther , has done the near impossible by creating a comic fable about the holocaust . 
but benigni's life is beautiful ( la vita e bella ) is not so much a story of the holocaust as it uses that monstrous outrage against humanity as a backdrop to tell a story of familial love , devotion and sacrifice . 
the movie starts out as a typical slapstick farce with benigni's guido arriving in the small tuscan town of arezzo in 1938 to fulfill his dream of owning a bookstore . 
like many of the slapstick clowns who preceded him , most notably the almost-forgotten harry langdon , benigni's guido has a childlike innocence . 
he ignores the growing anti-semitism of the fascist government . 
instead , guido ardently falls in love and persues dora , a local school teacher who already is engaged to a local fascist official . 
in benigni's tightly wound script this is the same fascist official with whom guido had an earlier unfortunate - yet slapstick - encounter . 
guido wins dora . 
they marry . 
fast forward about five years . 
guido , dora , and their 5-year-old son , giosue ? ( giorgio cantarini ) are a happy family . 
guido has finally fulfilled his dream of opening a bookstore . 
but racial and anti-semitic tensions are on the rise in italy , and guido has determined to do his best to shield his son from these harsh realities . 
the task becomes even the more difficult when the family is deported to a concentration camp . 
here , guido must use all his skill and imagination not only to shield his son , but to keep him from being exterminated . 
it is at this juncture in life is beautiful may tend to offend those whom the holocaust has touched . 
for the scenes in the concentration camp lack the horror , the pain , the unimaginable suffering of a schindler's list . 
true , many italian jews were not deported until the war was nearly over , and most were not sent to the death camps , but to work camps where they were used as slave labor . 
unlike steven spielberg , benigni is not out to tell the story of the holocaust . 
his story is about family and the lengths a parent will go to protect a child . 
for guido , to save his son , transforms the entire experience into an elaborate game . 
giosue ? must follow the rules without question to amass 1 , 000 points . 
the winner takes home a tank . 
therefore , guido tells him , he must remain hidden in the barracks . 
he cannot make a sound nor allow the guards to see him . 
guido explains this during a hilarious sequence when a german guard barks the camp instructions to the newly arrived inmates . 
guido , lying that he understands german and can translate for his fellow prisoners , instead lays down the rules for his son to allow him a chance to survive . 
throughout their imprisonment , guido's quick thinking continually keeps his son from harm's way . 
ultimately , the allies rescue the camp . 
in a poignant scene , giosue ? comes out of hiding just as an american tank rolls into the compound . 
the boy goes wide-eyed with wonderment and delight , thinking he has won the game . 
the price for his victory is most high . 
benigni has succeeded in using the blackest moment in human history to prove that even in hell , a ray of hope and salvation can penetrate the darkness . 
life is beautiful is a fantasy , a fable . 
it is not to be taken as a record of the holocaust . 
those who object to it are missing its point . 
and that is simply where there is hope , where there is life and where there is love , the spark of humanity will never be extinguished . 
committed to lifelong learning through effective communication 
larry flynt is a self proclaimed smut pedlar and the owner/publisher of the multi-million dollar hustler publications company . 
the people vs . larry flynt is the story of larry flynt's fight for the freedom to circulate and sell his pornographic magazine , hustler . 
based on a true story , the film is almost a documentary in that it's a very vivid and detailed look at larry flynt's life . 
woody harrelson gives an excellent performance . 
he conveys flynt's peculiarities and his character with depth and focus . 
by the end of the film the audience actually finds themselves , somewhat grudgingly , liking larry flynt . 
this is some feat given flynt's apparent lack of any morals or ethics and his extremely smutty and childish behaviour in court . 
however , flynt has a number of things going for him , he's rich , he's funny , and most importantly , he says exactly what he means . 
larry flynt's wife , althea leasure is played by courtney love . 
larry meets althea at one of his clubs , and they fall in love ( a very sexual and open love ) . 
both of them indulge in a world of too much sex , and eventually too much drugs . 
flynt had been taking an excessive amount of pain killers after being paralysed from the waist down ( which was especially upsetting for him ) by an assassin . 
althea had joined him in taking the drugs . 
following an operation flynt decides to stop taking drugs , althea does not have any such plans , nor the determination to follow them . 
as the film progresses we see her become increasingly frail and sick . 
courtney love obviously has a great understanding for althea's situation , as she is brilliant in portraying althea in every respect . 
it's extremely sad to watch althea literally wither away . 
edward norton plays flynt's lawyer , alan isaacman . 
again , this is a solid performance . 
the audience finds it easy to sympathise with isaacman who somehow puts up with flynt's courtroom antics . 
flynt is not only childish in the courtroom , but downright rude to the judges , and lands himself in a lot of trouble ( and even in a mental institution ) because of it . 
isaacman is very easy to like , and great at proving ( in quite clever ways ) his points to the court . 
milos forman has done a great job in directing the people vs . larry flynt . 
it is not really an exciting or thrilling film , but instead a highly interesting portrayal of a true story . 
due to larry's character it is also , at times , a very funny film . 
however , it is much more than that . 
it is about the fight for freedom of speech , anti-censorship , and the right to be able choose for oneself what to see and buy . 
an excellent look at flynt , his life , and his story . 
keep a look out for the real larry flynt who makes a cameo as judge morrissey . 
virtual reality is a topic that has almost defined its own genre . 
since 'dark city' ( 1998 ) , films about alternative universes and parallel worlds have been coming one after another . 
the most popular and original of them all has been the matrix . 
all the films released after it , have been less successful . 
david cronenberg's existenz , released only a couple of months after the matrix , was accepted and even appreciated ( by some ) , but the hype was gone . 
and when 'the thirteenth floor' aired this fall , it was completely overseen and ignored . 
i admit that this issue has become something between tiring and annoying , feeling like eating the same meal over and over again . 
it was therefore i was less than excited , when i went out to see to 'the thirteenth floor' . 
however , i was positively surprised by josef rusnak's latest picture . 
matrix was an entertaining thrill ride through dreams and reality , combining the best of hollywood's action and effects with an intelligent story . 
existenz was a violent , gory and unsettling journey through reality and virtual reality , ending in blood and madness . 
'the thirteenth floor' is somewhere in between . 
instead of going after the crowds - the action audience ( like the matrix ) , or aiming at the horror fans ( like existenz ) , 'the thirteenth floor' presents a more intelligent plot , witch will provide a less entertaining and more serious experience , that the true science fiction lovers will find rewarding . 
in a near future . . . on 
the thirteenth floor of a classified building , a genius scientist , hannon fuller , has created a simulated world , his personal dreamworld , where every inhabitant is a complex , selflearning program that only believes it is real . 
right after the first testing of this world , fuller ( ) is found murdered . 
douglas hall ( ) , his closest friend and business partner , immediately becomes the prime suspect and must enter through the thirteenth floor in search of the truth . 
a beautiful woman ( gretchen mol ) who suddenly appears on the scene may hold the key to the mystery , which might unravel the horrifying truth about his own existence . 
the first " download into simulation " is impressive . 
it is the creator's first visit to his world , his creation . 
in order to enter this virtual universe , you have to take over someone's identity , become another person . 
this is called conciseness transfer , and this is part of the tragedy in the film : people " wake up " in unknown places and strange things start happen . 
they start to doubt in their own sanity . 
these innocent people pay for the mistakes of their " users " and creators with their sanity and their lives . 
it is a frightening reality ; the fact that all the people in the simulation ( the program links ) are living out their lives , oblivious , not knowing that they are puppets in someone's fantasy . 
with an appealing ( " blade runner " - type ) of detective story , this film presents the beauty and possibilities of virtual reality and the lurking danger that is always present . 
our modern world is metal and glass -- cold , unfriendly , impersonal . 
the thirties are different -- colorful , beautiful , elegant , virile . 
this contrast demonstrates a wish for change . 
virtual reality is here portrayed as a magical , enchanting power that seduces you into its endless possibilities . 
to some it is just a journey to their personal paradise , to some a personal playground -- a life without any consequences . 
for others - a way to start over and " correct " their mistakes , by living in an illusion of their past . 
virtual reality is a wizard that transforms your hopes , dreams and fantasies to life . 
at least that's how it is all beginning . 
but when you're waking up from your dream , the real world seems worthless and unreal and all you can think off is returning to your personal paradise . 
this , almost narcotic effect , soon turns into confusion and ultimately madness . 
some important and interesting philosophical questions are raised -- what is real ? 
what is thought ? 
who are we ? 
if these were answered , this film would be the greatest science fiction ever made . 
they are off course not answered , but posed in an intelligent manner . 
the visual aspect of the film is one of the key elements , since it portrays the contrast between these computer-simulated universes . 
kirk m . petrucelli has done a marvelous job with the recreation of the thirties with its glamour , grace and color ; and setting this world in opposition to our own -- an almost caricatured recreation of the nineties . 
there are some honest and decent performances by an almost unknown cast and harald klose's moody musical score that is at in right place at the right time . 
a rather unusual thing about'the thirteenth floor' is the almost complete lack of special effects . 
there are no cgi animated creatures , no bullets in slow motion . 
this is a more philosophical approach , reminding about the european way of filmmaking . 
this is off course a major disappointment to the audience that is used to endless gunfights and mutated amphibians , but the more serious science fiction buffs and 'dark city'-fans will be pleased . 
this film is interesting and inspiring . 
it has everything existenz doesn't , but it lacks the immediacy and intensity of the matrix . 
and then there is a happy end which , like in 'dark city' , completely alienates it from the rest of the story and context . 
the plot itself is not as original as the filmmakers want us to think , since they have virtually sucked out all information from the best science fiction classics , including blade runner and 'dark city' . 
with this in mind , 'the thirteenth floor' doesn't make an oscar candidate or a film that will be remembered a year from now , yet this is a beautiful , elegant and intelligent take on virtual reality . 
i don't know what movie the critics saw , but it wasn't this one . 
the popular consensus among newspaper critics was that this movie is unfunny and dreadfully boring . 
in my personal opinion , they couldn't be more wrong . 
if you were expecting airplane ! -like 
laughs and agatha christie-intense mystery , then yes , this movie would be a disappointment . 
however , if you're just looking for an enjoyable movie and a good time , this is one to see . 
honest , it is . 
this story is about a 4th network , wbn , taking to america's airwaves in 1939 . 
penny henderson ( mary stuart masterson ) , the station owner's secretary , must deal with her overbearing boss , an unimpressed sponsor and writers ready to quite on a moment's notice , partly due to the fact that they haven't been paid in weeks . 
among the mayhem , she must also deal with her soon-to-be ex-husband , roger ( brian benben ) who desperately wants her back . 
unfortunately , her problems only get worse as the night goes on and the body count rises without explanation . 
while trying to woo penny back , roger must deal with the police and try to find the killer that lurks at wbn . 
mary stuart masterson does well in her role as penny ( i'm trying to be unbiased so i won't tell you how amazing she looked ) , although brian benben gets most of the screen time . 
along with the two leads , are several recognizable faces , including corbin bernsen ( l . a . 
law ) , michael mckean ( laverne & shirley ) and bobcat goldthwait . 
the special effects are amazing , and fooled me ( which some may argue isn't very difficult to do ) in many scenes . 
although the movie sometimes goes overboard with the physical comedy , it more than makes up for those mistakes throughout the movie . 
overall , i gave it , or an , depending on what system you use . 
some comments collected from friends : 
it was with great trepidation that i approached +mary+ , the farrelly brothers+ latest film . 
i knew the film would be funny--the trailer alone had me laugh harder than the actual comedy i went to see . 
but i also knew the film would be an equal-opportunity offender , attacking the sensibilities of the politically correct with reckless abandon . 
i figured the film would be raunchy , maybe another lucky escapee from nc-17 hell . 
i may laugh , but would i feel better in the morning ? 
i needn+t have worried . 
+mary+ is the sweetest , warmest , all-out laugh-and-grossfest this side of _animal house_ . 
surprisingly , the farrelly brothers have walked that very tight line of making a touching romantic comedy on the side , and filling the details with five or six outrageous howlers . 
they make laughter , the toughest job for a filmmaker to do , look easy . 
the plot is typical . 
thirteen years ago , geeky ted ( ben stiller ) lucked out in having dazzling mary ( cameron diaz ) go with him to the senior prom . 
as luck would have it , on that very day , he was hospitalized . 
why , i shall not tell , but i assure you , it isn+t pretty . 
he hires a private investigator to find her : pat healy ( matt dillon ) . 
he becomes one of the great comic villains . 
upon finding her , he too is lovestruck , and so pursues her , lying about his occupation and getting his teeth capped . 
it is only a matter of time before ted finds out that he had been double-crossed , and goes to get her for himself . 
would the geek get the girl ? 
puh-lease . 
the ending is pure hollywood ; no surprises there . 
but the absolute joy in this film is how this simple premise allows for humor in zippers , hair gel , the mentally disabled , the physically handicapped , interracial marriages , homosexuals , skin conditions , serial killers , tanning , and drugged-up dogs . 
the dog on speed sequence alone is worth the price of admission , and belongs in the film comedy hall of fame . 
and yet , for all the targets that are hit , the film maintains its sweet tone . 
mary , playing the straight role , is as sweet and caring as she is beautiful . 
she is totally devoted to caring for her mentally handicapped brother , warren ( w . 
earl brown--miles away from the cameraman in _scream_ ) . 
mary+s sunniness carries the film here--it compliments the below-belt gags that come at you . 
cameron diaz makes her totally charming , and the audience respects her , even though women in general do not usually undress before an open window . 
ben stiller also fares very well , totally changing his image from his _reality bites_ and _flirting with disaster_ straight men to being a , ( how to say it ? ) , a complete loser . 
braces , greasy long hair , not too bright , and very very funny . 
dillon is exceptionally creepy , especially with his capped teeth . 
and rounding out the cast is ted+s friend dom ( chris elliot ) , tanning addict magda ( lin shaye ) , modern troubador/greek chorus ron lichman , and mary+s sweet mom , markie post ( where has she been ? ! ) . 
not everything works . 
chris elliot+s role , skin blemishes and all , becomes merely tasteless and boring . 
there+s lousy dialogue about eight-minute vs . seven minute exercise tapes . 
and there are long stretches without much going on . 
but the wait is worth it . 
when those extraordinary sequences hit , the entire theater erupted with howls , tears . 
belly-aches , that in some sequences carried over to the following scene . 
the farrelly brothers have finally done it . 
yes , there are some raunchy bits , but when it is all over , it+s not nearly as bad as it could have been . 
while tasteless , it didn+t cross any lines , at least not with me . 
while raunchy , it wasn+t nearly as bad as _porky+s_ or _boogie nights_ . 
and it is sweet enough to be considered a date flick . 
after the funny but sour _kingpin_ left a negative aftertaste in my palate , comes the funniest sex farce since _a fish called wanda_ . 
approach this with an open mind , and you will reap the benefits hugely . 
a standoff . 
a man holds a woman , a diplomat's daughter , hostage in his embrace , a gun pressed to her head . 
a cop , impaired by drink due to his wife's philandering , trains his gun on the man's nether regions , threatening to shoot . 
another cop holds his gun to his partner's temple , forcing him to disarm . 
the scene unfolds like a foursome bidding in bridge--upping the ante , signaling tacitly , going for game . 
the second cop retrieves the first cop's weapon , the suspect lowers his , and the woman caught in the middle moves--in slow motion--to safety . 
it is then that the intoxicated officer makes his move , grabbing for the assailant's gun . 
the room turns upside down , a shot rings out , a cop is down . 
shot in the back and paralyzed for life . 
the young man who found himself in the wrong place at the wrong time is sent to prison for six years for a crime he didn't commit . 
storytelling has always been one of pedro almod ? var's greatest gifts and in " live flesh " he gives us a twisting , turning , compelling tale peppered with well-written , colorful characters . 
characters who find themselves , more often than not , in carefully-constructed scenes like these . 
characters played by actors we might not know , but who look strikingly familiar nevertheless . 
take the ruggedly handsome victor plaza ( liberto rabal ) , for instance . 
before he gets out of prison he could easily be mistaken for that almod ? var favorite , antonio banderas . 
when we first meet elena ( francesca neri ) , the woman in the middle of the nervous shakedown , she looks like spice girl barbie with her frizzy shock of orange hair , but later tones down her look sufficiently to pass for juliette lewis . 
elena's husband david ( javier bardem ) is the cop crippled in the shooting and he wears david schwimmer's bemused expression throughout . 
playing the inebriated cop and his cheating wife are jos ? sancho and angela molina--no lookalikes spring to mind , but they round out the excellent cast . 
it's a credit to almod ? var's craft that these five individuals cross paths and intertwine with such credulity . 
 " live flesh " begins and ends with a live birth and the film's contradictions come almost as often as the contractions . 
between the two childbearings , coincidence , irony , and a hefty dollop of sex form the key elements of this thoroughly entertaining film . 
although based on a ruth rendell story , " live flesh " is brimming with the acclaimed spanish director's high-heeled flourishes . 
women are at times alluring and repulsive , their extravagant hairdos and animal print coats providing colorful highlights to the intricately-woven drama , an eye bruised by an abusive husband here , a mouth bloodied by an impromptu delivery there . 
while in prison , victor learns bulgarian from an inmate and learns to love the bible , quoting from deuteronomy thereafter not unlike the way by which david and sancho refer to themselves as " guardians of a sick flock . " 
victor's pre-fab inheritance is a shambles in a slum resembling sarajevo . 
 " dear son , i got cancer " his mother writes to him in jail . 
she dies before he is released and it's at the cemetery that victor is reacquainted with elena--redemption , ultimately , substituting for revenge . 
with stars like sigourney weaver ( " alien " trilogy ) and academy award winner holly hunter ( the piano , raising arizona , etc . ) together in a single hollywood production , one would immediately identify the film as a potential academy award hot shot . 
sadly for copycat , though tightly scripted and nicely plot , is still at heart , a typical hollywood thriller . 
helen ( weaver ) , after a traumatic near death encounter with a serial killer , darryl ( harry connick jr . ) , has developed a phobia for being outdoors , so to speak . 
incidentally , helen is also an expert on the subject of serial killers , which make her a juicy target for serial killer wannabes . 
a year has passed and strange deaths begin to terrorise the city of san francisco . 
detective monahan ( hunter ) and getz ( mulroney ) , baffled by the unorthodox methods of killing used by the killer , seeks the professional help of helen , who , as expected was reluctant at first . 
copycat " borrows " a lot from silence of the lambs and in most cases , it did work . 
but copycat tries to be a little bit more by immersing the audience into the lives of its main characters to give them more believability , this was rather unnecessary as the scenes seem to disrupt the mood of the entire film and also . . . 
much of the time wasted could've been used to build up the suspense and injected with drama . 
even so , weaver and hunter act very well in their own departments . . . 
weaver being the vulnerable yet strong-within character ( as in aliens ) and hunter being the short , tough , texan speaking cop ( as in raising arizona ) . 
harry connick jr . , a very good jazz singer , shines as the imprisoned serial killer a la hannibal lecter . 
which comes to the moment of judgement ( drum roll please . . . ) . 
copycat is a good thriller . 
although the plot is highly predictable and one can actually predict the rest of the movie after about 45 minutes into the show , copycat survives from the moments of anticipation where the audience are held on to their seats , in anticipation of the killers next immediate move . 
this worked pretty well and will offer audiences a couple of unexpected jolts . 
nice movie to bring your girlfriend to . . . . 
no , it is not a bad film , in fact it is so good in achieving its purpose , i actually wished for the film to end itself quickly . 
event horizon is not your run-of-the-mill sci-fi film , i'm sure many who have watched this will agree with me . 
it is not even original in that sense , and it does borrow heavily from films like alien , hellraiser and even blade runner . 
the magic of this film lies in its unorthodox setting and methodical build-up that makes it wonderfully horrifying . 
the story brings us to the year 2050 , where space travel have since enormously progressed . 
the event horizon is actually a ship built for a secret experimental purpose ; it has the ability to fold time and space thus making it possible for travelling distances not reachable in a man's lifetime . 
the ship disappeared as soon as it went into operation but after 7 years , it reappeared again within the orbit of neptune . 
a search and rescue team led by miller ( fishburne ) is given the task to check for survivors of the event horizon . 
the designer of the ship , dr . weir ( neill ) follows along to satisfy his curiosity on what actually happened to his otherwise technologically impressive ship . 
event horizon is a sci-fi horror film , much truer to the word than say , alien would ever be . 
while in alien , the crew has to cope with a ferocious creature while encased within tight spaces , in event horizon , the forces which goes against the crew is undefined but yet so powerful and horrifying . 
the story unfolds itself slowly and the suspense buildup is superb , up till the point where i really felt like saying out loud `enough ! 
i can't stand this anymore ! ' . 
there are more than enough jolts to send your adrenalin pumping overtime . 
the story in itself is not exactly something very exciting and also , the acting is only at most , average by most commercial standards . 
even so , the essence of horror is carried out very well in this film , thanks to its well-paced storytelling , disturbing set designs and some really gory sequences ( which incidentally , has been quite generously removed by our censorship board ) . 
director paul anderson ( who did mortal kombat ) and his team of `atmosphere' creators have done well in keeping event horizon within the bounds of the term `horror' . 
this picture did not do very well in the us box-office most probably for the dread-factor impact it has on most audiences ; people will not see it again and not many would recommend their friend to watch this . 
although on the face of it , event horizon is mostly molded for mass-entertainment ; many thrills , spills and suspense to keep audiences in focus . 
however , the offbeat horror element which it ultimately convey audiences is very disturbing . 
my friend and i could not say a word to each other for quite a while after going through the `experience' of event horizon . 
i guess it was just the immense feeling of dread which the film had cast upon us . 
be forewarned , this film is not for the faint-hearted nor for pure entertainment . 
be prepared to be disturbed if you should decide to watch this film ! 
event horizon is highly recommended ? ? but at your own risk ! 
it has been a long time since good-horror embraced the big screen , and event horizon is one . 
capsule : earthy , experimental , difficult , shockingly frank ( even for 1997 ! ) , and ultimately refreshing story of a black man on the run from the cops . 
the first few minutes of sweet sweetback's baad asssss song ( yes , i checked -- that's the correct number of ss ) are without dialogue , just eerie montages of sounds . 
a young boy , obviously malnourished , is taken in and fed up by several loving mother-surrogate figures . 
then one of them takes the boy to bed for a sexual initation ( underneath the title credits ) that's far more confrontatory and shocking than any ten basic instincts -- probably because it has the directness and clumsiness of real life , something we're not used to seeing on screen . 
this is one tough movie to swallow , no matter who you are , but that probably reflects more on how pallid and unchallenging movies have gotten lately . 
 ( i suspect the sex scenes in movies like el topo and salo would probably melt the synapses of most modern audiences . ) 
the plot is simple but not simpleminded . 
sweetback , hassled by two white cops who are apparently just looking for an excuse to beat up on a black man , breaks his bonds and runs like hell . 
along the way he moves through a good many of the kinds of environments that we are only just now being seen in a more serious light in the movies -- or at all , for that matter : the slums , the missions , the ghetto . 
in other , lesser , movies , sweetback would be machine-gunning everything in sight and the end credits would roll over a pile of bodies ; in this one , we get taken on a kind of a tour of the depressing and anarchic world that sweetback takes for granted . 
ssbas first appeared in 1971 and was promptly rated x ( " by an all-white jury " , as director melvin van peebles crowed in his legendary ad campaigns ) , and it's hardly surprising why . 
there's a good deal of sex in the movie , but it's handled in a way that's unsettlingly frank -- a frankness that spills over into the rest of the movie . 
in one scene , sweetback visits a friend's house in the hope of getting sanctuary there , and the other man chats him up while on the toilet . 
we're not used to coming this close to people in real life , let alone in the movies -- especially not people who are not made out to be glamorous . 
the movie is also full of experimental stylistics that are relatively unused today , but probably because of that seem curiously fresh and new in van peebles' hands . 
one scene , in which a man is interrogated by the cops , is loaded full of menacing energy as they fire off a gun inches from his ears , and suggest his deafness through a cleverly edited soundtrack . 
another note : ssbas is not so much anti-white ( that would be too easy ) as anti-authority , and as the movie goes on to demonstrate , authority exists in many forms -- governments , churches , and even the paranoid inside of one's own mind . 
ssbas is ultimately about thirsting for freedom -- and it looks like we could use a little more of that in our movie diet , god knows . 
a fully loaded entertainment review - website coming in july ! 
i didn't really expect very much when i rented stuart saves his family . 
the movie bombed at the box office , and i had never really liked the saturday night live sketch on which the movie was based . 
my real concern , though , was the general reputation of snl-related movies translating to the big screen with less-than-stellar results ( half-baked , anyone ? ) 
i was surprised to discover a truly entertaining , often hilarious yet also touching little film . 
it is an al franken production through-and-through , who not only created the title character but also wrote and starred in the picture . 
for those of you who don't know , al franken plays a guy named stuart smalley , who has a really annoying show on a public-access station about increasing your self-esteem , etc . although not a licensed therapist , stuart smalley is , as the program proudly boasts , " a graduate of several 12-step programs . " 
stuart is doing well enough with his tv show , but he keeps getting distracted by family troubles . 
stuart's relatives are a mess : his dad and brother ( harris yulin and vincent d'onofrio , respectively ) are alcoholics , his sister is overweight and getting over another divorce , and his mom is in constant self-denial and solves all perceived problems by baking . 
then , disaster strikes . 
stuart accidentally insults the manager of the station and gets his show revoked . 
he is forced to move back in with his family after he can no longer support himself , and there the comedy truly picks up . 
franken wrote all of the characters not just as cliches or stereotypes , but as sharply-drawn , real people . 
although smalley's dad has always imbibed too much , stuart can still recall times when his father seemed like an okay guy . 
also , after an accident towards the end of the movie , both stuart and the audience learn that there is more to his mother than previously thought . 
although filled with small , very funny scenes , stuart saves his family also has its share of dramatic moments , especially towards the conclusion . 
for a lightweight comedy , it handles these scenes especially well , often better than many so-called " serious dramas " of today . 
all the more amazing is that such a movie comes from a saturday night live sketch that is essentially a one-joke bit . 
if you feel like renting a comedy , and you haven't seen this film , i definitely recommend you try this one out . 
you'll laugh . . . you'll 
cry . . . . it's 
all there . 
 " oh my god , i sounded just like a mother ! " 
mrs . pascal , played with devilish wickedness by genevieve bujold , tells her son . 
 " didn't i sound just like a mother ? " 
 " you are a mother , " her son marty tells her disgustedly . 
 " i know , but i still can't believe it . 
i look at you people and wonder , how did you ever fit in my womb ? " 
marty , you see , is a grown-up twin . 
although his sister , who thinks she is jackie-o , is certifiably insane , marty fits right in with the rest of this highly dysfunctional family in the witty black comedy the house of yes . 
mother and daughter , played in a brilliant performance by parker posey , are both varying degrees of wacko . 
most dysfunctional families in the movies are more angry and mean-spirited than diabolically abnormal as this one is . 
the daughter's fantasy of being jackie-o is probably the most sane part of her being . 
mrs . pascal is the sort that will not let jackie-o keep a hairbrush downstairs since food is kept on that level . 
she explains to marty's new fiancee , lesly ( tori spelling ) , soon after their first meeting that jackie-o was holding marty's private part when she came out of the womb . 
the dialog by wendy macleod , based on the play by mark waters , is so sharp and biting that it seems in danger of cutting through the celluloid at any moment . 
the script , reminiscent of a david mamet play , flows smoothly with its fast paced intelligence and mesmerizing set of bizarre characters . 
the exaggerated setup has lesly and marty arriving at the family's out of the way mansion during a thanksgiving day hurricane . 
in this storm are two sane individuals . 
the fiancee is a giddy , school-girl type , embarrassed by everything , a complete contrast to her rival jackie-o's bitter pseudo-sophistication . 
as the two twins' younger brother , anthony , freddie prinze jr . plays the all-america boy type whose only foible is his explicit obsession of bedding his brother's fiancee that night . 
 " we all have our secrets , " jackie-o tells her potential sister-in-law , and boy , does she have a few . 
this is a house filled with them . 
 ( when lesly calls it the family's " home " to mrs . pascal -- they've never had a visitor before lesly -- mrs . pascal becomes discombobulated until she realizes that lesly is talking about their " house . " ) 
in a film that gives new meaning to the phrase , " made for each other , " the twin's biggest , but not their only secret , is that they've had a long-term incestuous relationship . 
they don't like to discuss it , although they are not particularly ashamed of it . 
perfect for viewers who can appreciate perverse comedy , this story never pulls its punches . 
jackie-o tries in many ways , few subtle , to show that she is a better match for marty than that ditzy fiancee of his . 
in one scene marty and lesly are playing chop sticks together on the piano when jackie-o pushes her aside and starts playing a challenging classical piece for four hands . 
marty joins her as his fiancee looks on with envy . 
the chemistry between parker posey and josh hamilton is nothing short of amazing . 
they put down their little brother and most of the other sane people in the world . 
their ripostes are engaging filmmaking at its best . 
director mark waters keeps the show's energy level high and lets the leads sling zingers at each other at a furious pace . 
his crisp direction ensures the movie has nary an ounce of fat on it . 
jackie-o is temperamentally incapable of being nice . 
and being jealous , she cuts lesly down mercilessly . 
 " were you poor ? " 
jackie-o asks her when she finds that lesly committed the crime of growing up impoverished . 
 " did you eat pies ? 
chicken pot pies ? " 
 " pancakes actually , lots of pancakes , " lesly replies with her usual sincerity . 
 " a donut king , so is she like the queen ? , " 
jackie-o cattily inquires of marty when she learns that lesly works at a donut king . 
 " are we entertaining royalty ? " 
with rolfe kent's whimsically sinister music it never seems clear where the story is headed . 
will it end in a big emotional explosion , a murder , people slowly cutting each other up with words , a familial catharsis , a weather disaster or what ? 
the emotionally charged play is clearly going somewhere , and the engaging characters captivate the audience with their spell . 
i'll not say more except that the ending is perfect and a bit of a surprise . 
the house of yes runs a blazing fast 1 : 25 . 
it is rated r for sexual situations and conversations , mature themes , violent overtones and some profanity . 
the movie would be fine for older and mature teenagers , i . e . , treat the movie as it were rated nc-17 . 
i don't know how many other people have had the idea cross their mind that their life could be an ongoing television show watched by another world of people , but it's something i used to wonder about when i was younger . 
i can't decide if i first thought it because i watched a lot of tv or because my brother hit me in the head with a baseball bat , but i'm pretty sure andrew niccol , screenwriter for the truman show , has had the same curious thought . 
the truman show is about a man ( jim carrey ) whose entire life has been engineered by a corporation and marketed to the public . 
since birth , he's been living in the fictional island town of seahaven , fla . , which actually exists as a giant domed set just beyond the hollywood sign . 
all the people in truman burbank's life are actors , and the anonymous townfolk paid extras . 
people watch truman's life 24 hours a day , live , with no commercial interruptions . 
revenue comes instead from product placement , a staple of contemporary hollywood , with truman's friends and relatives describing their consumer items in cheerful and optimistic tones . 
the sun rises and sets on cue and everyone likes everyone else . 
even if you haven't seen the truman show , you've probably learned most of the crucial details from the commercials , the trailer and other promotion blitzes . 
if anything i've written so far is a surprise to you , then i pity you for making me a primary source for your entertainment news . 
either way , you should probably know the premise of the truman show going into it , because otherwise you'll probably think it sucks . 
it begins with jim carrey looking into a mirror , reciting the crucial " eat me " scene from alive , wishing his neighbors a good day , afternoon and evening , and living in domestic bliss with his wife ( laura linney ) . 
but weird things start happening . 
a stage light comes falling out of the sky , truman hears people tracking his movements on the radio and he swears he sees his dead father . 
we learn through a flashback that his father drowned when truman was a child , sailing through a rainstorm . 
the death was staged by director christof ( ed harris ) , who wanted to put a fear of water into truman to keep him from leaving the island . 
similar cruel manipulations keep him from stumbling upon the truth , not the least of them truman's best friend marlon ( noah emmerich ) , who assures him he's not in on any conspiracy because the last thing he'd ever do is hurt him . 
as truman's trusting eyes tear over , christof fades up emotional synthesizer music for a worldwide audience of people who apparently never watch anything else . 
there's even a daily behind-the-scenes update from harry shearer that captures the highlights of truman's existence . 
the key to a movie like this is in finding the right balance between humor and drama , because a premise like this has its obvious implications in both directions . 
and it all hinges on carrey , who has to balance comic naivet with a real sense of longing and drive to find out what the hell is going on . 
he's come a long way from talking butt cheeks in ace ventura . 
most fundamentally , it's just plain interesting to follow along as director peter weir shows us just how they can capture a person's life without the person realizing it -- how they coordinate extras , hide cameras and feed automatic lines to actors . 
the most interesting thing about the truman show is that most of us can probably imagine some ambitious director pitching a show like this . 
sure , the most interesting tv genre of the '90s has been reality programming and jerry springer's popularity is through the roof , but those people deserve to be humiliated for turning their intimate details over to the airwaves . 
and when news shows use hidden cameras , it's done in the name of the greater good , not entertainment . 
but merge the two and you've got the truman show . 
right now , it's implausible -- i mean , the fcc won't let you say the s-word on the air ; do you think they'd let you broadcast every detail of a man's life to the entire world without his consent ? 
one day , though , it could happen . 
and , even though it would mean the end of privacy , people would eat it up . 
you know they would . 
no filmmaker deconstructs a story as well as atom egoyan . 
i'm referring , specifically , to the narrative form . 
in the sweet hereafter , egoyan tells his story in a similar framework to his exotica or the adjuster . 
said story , of a fatal school bus accident in the small town of sam dent , british columbia , that shatters the morale of the locals , is told in a most unstraightforward manner . 
when the film opens , the accident has already happened , and stephens ( the wonderful holm ) , a polite ambulance-chaser , has arrived with the promise of a lawsuit that will eek out the truth of what really occurred that fateful morning . 
throughout , we get to meet the parents of the dead , broken souls who follow stephens like " the pied piper " ( passages of which are read during the film ) . 
but there is one living passenger , the paralyzed nicole ( polley ) , whose dark secrets of a life before the accident may affect her decision to testify . 
we finally do see the accident , about three quarters into the film , which is a stunning visual effect . 
a horrific long take that shows the bus sliding , then stopping , then collapsing into a frozen lake , is the best digital trickery in any movie this year and , perhaps , ever , in a motion picture . 
the fractured narrative also intercuts a preoccupied stephens on an airplane , traveling to meet his hiv-positive runaway daughter , as well as glimpses of the artificially happy lives these people led pre-accident . 
i have a problem not with the story or story structure , but with egoyan's heavy- handedness behind the camera . 
for the first hour or so , i can quite honestly say i was on the verge of tears ; these are miserable , miserable people . 
but that's just the problem : so anguished are these folk that sympathy wanes after a while , when a lot of sadness becomes too much . 
also , a subplot involving incest rings untrue . 
perhaps it wouldn't feel so contrived if it weren't shot in such a tasteful manner . 
there are two characters who are father and daughter ; when they first appeared i thought they were lovers . 
i was half-right . 
nevertheless it's worth-seeing . 
the delightful critic geoff pevere recently wrote that " american films are about action , canadian films are about consequences , " hence a recent wave of films about the effects of shock and death from toronto directors , including crash and kissed . 
the sweet hereafter is much better than either of these two films , simply because it's not boring or , in the case of kissed , afraid of its own material ( necrophilia ) . 
egoyan is a fine , fine , postmodern storyteller , whose work is entertaining , edgy and smart , if a bit too intellectual at times . 
though i harped on the weightiness of the material , i was always absorbed , engrossed , and surprised by the sweet hereafter . 
i know what i would do with $4 . 4 million if i found it in a previously undiscovered airplane crash site , especially if i were with jacob and lou . 
 ( huh ? ) 
well , in any event , that is the situation hank ( paxton ) finds himself in . 
he and his dim-witted brother jacob ( thorton ) and tubby friend lou ( brent briscoe ) come upon a large bag of cash inside a plane wreck . 
against his better judgement , hank decides to go along with the idea of keeping it rather than going to the authorities . 
the rest of the film is a question of who is going to die to keep this a secret , and is it worth it ? 
a simple wish lies along the lines of very bad things , clay pigeons and even fargo , and is kind of wrapped all into one little dark bundle . 
oh , and its much better than any of those . 
sam raimi took a departure from his normal freak-show horror-monkey films and made this stylish and intriguing picture . 
he really lets the audience sit back and watch the events unfold rather than force them down our throats as many directors prefer to do . 
i think raimi knew he had a winner on his hands and decided to direct the picture on a natural flowing course . 
one of the film's components can be linked to a recurring theme in terrence malick's the thin red line . 
in malick's three hour bore-a-thon , he makes an interesting attempt to link mother earth to his war story . 
it seemed nothing more than an occasional pretty cut to a field of flowing grass , a small bird , or a flowing body of water . 
sure , there were obvious metaphorical connections , but there was no subtlty to his efforts . 
raimi does a fine job of tying in a fox in a chicken coop and birds of prey to signify the future of the characters . 
i think most viewers may miss the comparison , but it is a very intriguing ingredient in the film . 
and then there's billy bob thorton , who is proof that the independent film industry is vital to the life blood of hollywood . 
if it can continute to produce people like thorton , hollywood will be ok . 
he gives a fantastic and devastatingly deep performance here . 
it is not as engrossing as his carl childers character in slingblade , but is is just as complex , if not more so . 
jacob is slow and simple , and yet we so often see him deep in thought . 
i wondered if he was thinking about things that he would never say ( or didn't know how to say ) or if he was just taking a long time to think about the thing he just said . 
here he really proves his worth as one of the best character actors in the industry . 
though the plot is somewhat unoriginal , it has a very appealing new twist in its characters . 
paxton gives one of the better performances of his career as the straight and serious leader of the group ( a far cry from chet in wierd science ) . 
perhaps bridget fonda is miscast as his advice-giving wife , but she certainly doesn't do anything ruin the picture . 
a simple plan can be included in the group of recent small hollywood films that is just dark and pretty un-redeeming . 
but at least this one has an important message , unlike so many of its counterparts . 
i saw simon birch in a basically sold out theater , on a sunday afternoon . 
when the movie was over and the audience was exiting , i didn't hear one negative comment , and i didn't have any to offer . 
simon birch is primarily about the friendship of two twelve year old boys , simon ( ian michael smith ) and joe ( joseph mazzello ) , and what destiny holds for both of them . 
simon is a dwarf , who was not supposed to last through the night after birth due to a weak heart . 
surprisingly , he does , and now constantly reminds everyone that he is a living miracle . 
simon thinks god has a plan for him , a purpose for his life , and his condition , he just doesn't know what . 
joe is an illegitimate child ( referred to both comically and dramatically throughout the film as a bastard ) , who's mom ( ashley judd ) won't tell him who his father is . 
simon has more than just dwarfism as a problem , the people in the town don't really like him , because he isn't " natural " . 
even his own parents don't care about him , and are disappointed they didn't have a " normal " son . 
he is also harassed in church by the local pastor , rev . russell ( david strathairn ) and simon's chain smoking sunday school teacher played by jan hooks . 
the only person , other than joe , that really cares for simon is joe's mom , who he also looks up to as a mother . 
it would be just simon's luck , that he would accidentally kills joe's mom , something you are told at the beginning of the movie . 
joe , now motherless as well as fatherless , feels the need to find out who his real father is . 
with the help of ben ( oliver platt ) , the local drama teacher and joe's mom's current boyfriend ( before her death ) , he will attempt to locate his dad and get in a little trouble on the way . 
most of this trouble is laugh out loud funny , although not all of it is . 
simon will also look for god's plan for him , although he loses a little faith along the way . 
starring in the first ( and last ) five minutes of the film is hollywood's newest dramatic actor , jim carrey . 
jim plays the adult version of joe and does a impressive job starting the film off , and then tying it up just right . 
this is the first character jim has played that is not over the top in anyway , and he does a commendable job . 
simon birch is written and directed by mark steven johnson , this is his first film as director , but he has written several films , including the grumpy old men series . 
he does an outstanding writing and directing job here , the film's structure is flawless and its flows together perfectly . 
the dialog goes from extremely funny to morose without missing a beat . 
the cast is excellent . 
joseph mazzello gives the stand out performance . 
joseph is outstanding for someone of any age , not alone someone who just turned 15 . 
ian michael smith , in his film debut , has such a strong physical presence that you believe he is simon without any hesitation . 
other great performances are turned in by the rest of the supporting cast . 
i loved this movie , it is far and away one of the best films i have seen all year . 
take your whole family to see simon birch , it is a magnificent film- an american masterpiece . 
the saint was actually a little better than i expected it to be , in some ways . 
in this theatrical remake of the television series the saint , and its series sequel the return of the saint , val kilmer plays simon templar , an elusive thief who makes a living by stealing things from others for others . 
this movie closely resembles a james bond flick . 
it has the classic bond symbols : a man who can do just about anything and get away with it , a woman whom the man persues , a villain out to achieve something for himself who kills anyone to reach this goal . 
kilmer actually provides a rather good role in this movie , although at times you are left to ponder how he actually gets out of the many tight situations . 
the movie begins in his childhood in a strict school run by catholic priests . 
as a young boy , kilmer's character enjoyed magic and would often journey away from his schoolwork . 
that is until his school teacher finds him reading a book and demands that the young boy proclaim his name , that of a catholic saint . 
he refuses to do so and instead announces who he wishes to be . 
this leads to a devestating mistake , which is something that will stay in his mind throughout his life . 
kilmer's first mission that we are shown is to steal a microchip from ivan tretiak , played by rade serbedzija . 
during a press conference , he must make his way into a heavily guarded vault area , avoiding guards , cameras , and many other potential obstacles . 
once his mission is completed and he is safely home , the fee is paid . 
when he logs into his bank account and finds that he is only a few million dollars short of $50 million , he decides to carry out only one more mission , then retire . 
dr . emma russell , portrayed by elisabeth shue , has discovered a way to produce energy by way of cold fusion . 
this new advancement would change the world and save thousands of lives in the areas of russia , where millions are without heat and are freezing to death . 
the only problem is , tretiak would like to have this for himself and use it to gain power amongst the people . 
this presents the option for kilmer to achieve his goal . 
tretiak hires him to steal the equations , small pieces of paper , from shue . 
one of the enjoyable features in the film is the disguises that kilmer dawns to complete his missions . 
they are very convincing , not only to the characters in the movie , but to us . 
kilmer utilizes one such disguise to lure shue's character into getting to know him even more , which would provide him a means of stealing the energy formula . 
when the two meet , and end up having a sensual experience , kilmer's character is seemingly falling in love with emma russell , as she is falling in love with kilmer's alter-ego , a traveling artist . 
yet , he must reach his goal of $50 million , which requires him to steal the energy formula , putting his feelings aside . 
shue's character is eventually able to track down simon templar by putting the pieces ( the names of the catholic saints ) together , something no one else is able to do . 
when she finds him , they are left to team up and reclaim the energy formulas from tretiak . 
the saint is very action-packed , with few slow points . 
the sound was very well done and added to the many intense moments . 
along the course of the movie , there are even a few , although brief moments of comedy . 
these moments are almost always thanks to kilmer's extraneous , very convincing disguises and personalities . 
all in all , a rather enjoyable movie with nearly non-stop action . 
the thirteenth floor , the third in what i would call " the reality check movie series " , is very similar to the other reality check movies released this year , the matrix and existenz . 
all three made you think , made you wonder what is real , what isn't , and if our world is just a huge game . 
the thirteenth floor doesn't reach the level of originality , creativity , and curiosity sparked by the matrix and existenz , but it certainly gives a great shot at it . 
in the matrix , we were told that the humans are simply a virus . 
in existenz , we learned that our life could be just a game . 
in the thirteenth floor , we learn that we are just electronic devices , living under another world of electronic devices . 
there is just one world on top of another , and everything in them are fake and electronically generated . 
the thirteenth floor took a huge , risky turn that i didn't expect it to take , and i'm not very sure it was such a great turn to make . 
rather than focusing just on the reality parts of the film , the thirteenth floor becomes a murder mystery that ends up tying in with the different worlds . 
after the mysterious murder of computer program designer hammond fuller , played by armin mueller-stahl , douglas hall , played by craig bierko , a man that worked under fuller for many years , must travel through an electronic computer device that fuller was using , to the year 1937 , which consists of computer generated characters only . 
the simulation of 1937 is just like it was back in the olden days . 
all of the people involved are just characters , or are they ? 
douglas strongly believes that a character traveled through the transport from their world to ours , and killed fuller . 
along the way , douglas interacts with many different potential suspects , and a woman who claims to be the daughter of fuller , jane fuller , played wonderfully by a talented young actress , gretchen mol . 
the thirteenth floor is a plot driven movie from the time the film gets going , and doesn't use spectacular special effects and big sound to keep the viewer's interests . 
i was worried that this film would be too much like the matrix and existenz , and i wouldn't enjoy it , but there were enough twists and turns to keep me thinking and attentive to the film . 
unfortunately , many potential would have been great scenes were thrown away with predictable content , letting the viewer know the outcome of the scene long before it happened . 
the scenes that aren't original or interesting seem to go absolutely nowhere , leaving you wondering , " what is the point of this ? " 
sometimes it was hard to believe that this story , with terrible dialogue , some bad acting , especially from craig bierko , and scenes that go absolutely nowhere , are actually true . 
i know this isn't a true story or anything , but a film should be able to make you think that it is . 
on the plus side of acting , we get to see the missing from main character action since the film masterpiece shine in 1995 actor , armin mueller-stahl . 
in the thirteenth floor , he is back and is still giving believable and amazing performances . 
another plus is gretchen mol's realistic performance , creating her character with depth , not just staying in the one-dimensional phase . 
don't expect the intensity of the matrix or existenz to come out of the thirteenth floor , just expect another film that messes with your mind for awhile , and shuts you down like any other movie would . 
thrills , chills , and spills aren't what you will get in this film , but you will just get another trip to send your mind on , scrambling it until you've had enough . 
the bottom line- let's hope this is the last of the " reality check " based movies for awhile . 
i tried hard not like this movie without succeeding . 
it contains parts of bringing up baby , any hepburn/tracy film , part of the plot of war games , cary grant and rosalind russell in his girl friday , elevator shaft action , train action , and murder . 
it is cute , funny , suspenseful ( a little bit ) , sexy ( a little bit ) . 
one of the bad guys was a surprise . 
the pace is fast enough , there are some " action " scenes . 
i think that this is a reasonable family summer movie for families with older kids who have already seen maverick . 
julia roberts and nick nolte are fine separately and together . 
i really identified with the julia roberts character ( wishful thinking , i know ! ) , but i do have better hair ! 
her hair , a very dull dark brown , has no color . 
she could use some highlights . 
they both do fine with their roles : he's a bored columnist with the chicago chronicle and she's a hotshot " cub " reporter with the chicago globe . 
they have great fun trying to out scoop each other to solve one case throughout this movie . 
i like the one story focus . 
other actors include charles martin smith as roberts' boss , olympia dukakis as nolte's coworker , nora dunn also with the chronicle , and marsha mason as a congresswoman . 
basically this movie is reasonably fun . 
there is a serious mystery to solve , and i enjoyed following a fun couple solving the mystery . 
it is a pleasant change of pace from movies that take themselves seriously . 
i do give successful comedy high marks . 
plot : jet li is a chinese cop asked to help some french policemen nab a bad guy . 
but one thing leads to another , and the next thing you know , li's being chased by the same french cops with whom he was supposed to be working . 
a lot of ass-kicking , face-whippings , gun fights and . . . okay , a little more ass-kicking ensues . 
critique : very cool ! 
now here's a movie that gives you exactly what you're looking for , if what you're looking for is kickass action , a palpable good cop/bad cop story line , some hardcore stunts and jet li slam-dunking everyone in sight ! 
the film also moves fast ( a mere 95 minutes ) , develops a certain " cute " chemistry between fonda and li , has nice surroundings ( paris , baby ! ) and gives us one of the best bad guys that i've seen all year . 
tcheky karyo is the devil incarnate in this film . 
he is pure evil . 
they should have called this movie bad lieutenant 2 as keitel has nothing on this man . 
what a great , great monster ! 
my favorite line of tcheky's was when li was explaining the whole " kiss of the dragon " thing to him and he cut him off by saying " kiss my ass ! " 
pure action movie poetry . 
anyway , other than him , jet li also handled his " acting " pretty well in this film , with very little real dialogue to say , but enough to make us believe his character . 
actually , just looking into the man's eyes generally tells you a lot . 
fonda was also pretty good , despite playing one of the most trashy and abused women that i have seen in quite some time , but i still felt kinda bad for her , so i guess she did her job okay . 
but in the end , nobody goes to see this kind of movie for oscar performances . 
we go to see jet li movies because we want to see jet li kicking a lot of ass from side to side , and this film delivers gangbusters on that front . 
and yes . . . they have no wire-fu in this movie . . . i 
say again . . . no 
wire-work , no bullshit stunts with li floating around in mid-air for over a minute . 
it's all straight action , fist to fist , boot to face and all around cool stunts . 
if that's what you're looking for , i don't see how you will be disappointed with this film . 
yes , it's not very original in plot ( just take luc besson's own la femme nikita and mix in plenty of his own the professional et voila ! ) , does have an annoying hip-hoppy soundtrack that just got on my nerves after a while ( i also would have gotten rid of the whole acupuncture thang . . . ) and will have anyone not willing to restrain their disbelief , rolling their eyes all over the place . 
but was i entertained ? 
thoroughly . 
does the film feature more gunplay , martial arts and over-the-top kills that most recent action flicks ? 
yes , again . 
does this sound interesting to you ? 
well , the answer to that question is entirely up to you . 
one thing that i would definitely recommend is , as jet li pointed out himself on his website , that you leave the kids at home for this one . 
in fact , you might even wanna leave yourself if you can't handle the more violent of sequences . 
all in all , a rippin' , roarin' fun time ! 
where's joblo coming from ? 
black mask ( 5/10 ) - blade ( 7/10 ) - la femme nikita ( 8/10 ) - lethal weapon 4 ( 7/10 ) - the matrix ( 8/10 ) - the professional ( 9/10 ) - romeo must die ( 3/10 ) - rush hour ( 7/10 ) - shanghai noon ( 6/10 ) 
i've never been a member of the robin williams fan club . 
a little bit of his improvisationaly schtick goes a long way , and i sometimes feel as though i'm watching a 40-year-old class clown . 
in his films , williams has often tried to balance his mania with touchy-feely emotion , leading to wildly uneven performances . 
mrs . 
doubtfire seemed ready-made for the same problems , but instead it proves to be williams' best comic screen project yet . 
while it still contains some characteristic self-indulgence , mrs . 
doubtfire is nonetheless an engaging belly-laugh comedy served up with high energy . 
williams stars as daniel hillard , a cartoon voiceover artist with a penchant for irresponsible behavior . 
one such incident proves one too many for wife miranda ( sally field ) , and she files for a divorce . 
unemployed , living in a disastrously unkempt apartment and faced with limited time with his three beloved children , daniel decides to respond to miranda's ad for an afternoon housekeeper . 
he turns to his brother frank ( harvey fierstein ) , a theatrical makeup artist , and emerges as euphegenia doubtfire , a matronly 65-year-old englishwoman . 
daniel uses his access to the house to keep an eye on miranda's flirtation with a wealthy client ( pierce brosnan ) , to spend time with the children , and to learn something about responsible parenting , all the while trying to keep his identity hidden from the people who know him best . 
mrs . doubtfire has to overcome a mountain of implausibilities to work , and basically it does so . 
the most crucial is that no one in the family recognizes daniel , and thanks to the fantastic special makeup that's instantly believable . 
it may be one of the most convincing transformations ever committed to film , making dustin hoffman's dorothy michaels look like milton berle . 
more problematic was a series of calls daniel makes to miranda posing as nannies from hell ; it's a bit hard to swallow that she doesn't recognize any of the voices as her husband's . 
perhaps the biggest contrivance we're asked to swallow is that daniel could make a quick change into mrs . doubtfire in a few minutes . 
there's more to realistic makeup than slapping on a latex mask . 
fortunately , these are inconsistencies which only attract attention as the credits roll . 
during the film , i was generally too busy laughing . 
after getting off to a slow start involving too much of williams' riffing , mrs . 
doubtfire kicks into high gear once the wig and pads are in place . 
daniel's frantic attempt to fool a court officer is wonderful , as is the climactic restaurant sequence , even though i saw the resolutions coming a mile away . 
clearly , most of the credit for doubtfire's success goes to robin williams . 
it took putting him in drag , but for once he plays a comic character that isn't just robin williams with a different name . 
he thoroughly inhabits euphegenia doubtfire , and seems to relish the scenes in which he gets to play her as blunt and foul-mouthed . 
wisely , he never aims for saintly . 
his responses to the intrusion of new suitor stu are often petty , but the kind of thing most of us might do with the benefit of anonymity . 
it's one of mrs . 
doubtfire's charms that neither daniel nor miranda is perfect , just people trying to be better . 
as miranda , sally field is solid in a background role , and pierce brosnan is nicely understated as stu . 
the children are also good , although mara wilson is almost oppressively cute as the youngest . 
the supporting players merely step aside and allow williams to do his thing . 
it's easy to see mrs . 
doubtfire as little more than tootsie warmed over , and it's true that there are both broad themes and specific details in common . 
but mrs . 
doubtfire manages to carve out its own space , particularly through the surprisingly honest moments involving a judge's decision and the ultimate status of daniel and miranda's relationship . 
there's nothing dazzlingly new in mrs . 
doubtfire , but there are plenty of laughs , and good comedies are always in short supply . 
and it's nice to see robin williams just act for a change . 
weir is well-respected in hollywood for turning scripts with difficult subject-matter into deceptively simple , powerful films , the mosquito coast ( utopia ) and fearless ( post-traumatic stress disorder ) among them . 
in the truman show , weir essentially breathes life into the now-tired concept of media-manipulation by tackling the material from the inside-out . 
it certainly helps that he has an underrated performer in top-form playing the title character , truman burbank . 
by now you must be aware of the premise : unbeknownst to him , truman ( carrey ) is the star of his own tv series , a 24-7 peep-show in which he is surrounded by actors and placed in loosely scripted situations ; people around the world tune in for the voyeuristic thrill of his genuine reactions to fictitious stimulants . 
`seahaven' , his hometown , and the show itself , are the brainchild of christof ( harris ) , who presides over his creation in the base of a fake moon , directing over 500 cameras and hundreds of actors and extras . 
for 30 years , truman suspects nothing-`we accept the reality we're given , ' poses christof-but a desire to break free of the sunny town and visit a long lost love in `fiji' ( mcelhone , who was actually an actress fired by christof for trying to break the confidentiality agreement ) overwhelms him . 
thus , christof and his team suddenly find themselves working twice as hard to keep the veneer of seahaven intact , lest truman discover the world outside and put an end to the highly-rated program . 
in a few broad strokes , weir creates a convincing second-reality , and he has the good sense not to bring christof into the picture until almost three-quarters through . 
this allows us to comprehend and accept truman's world before we contextualize it . 
for all his madness , christof has shown the world a place without violence and hardship , and demonstrated that a human being can function well within it . 
truman is an inspiration to his audience because he grew up to be , well , so darn nice ; like a sibling ( or , perhaps more appropriately , a caged animal in an interactive zoo ) , they want to see him succeed . 
the surrealistic soap opera is completely plausible thanks to a tight screenplay and a sympathetic carrey-he really is an everyman here , abandoning his facial contortions in favour of a credible , wide-eyed bewilderment . 
cinematically , the truman show is impeccable , stylishly photographed by peter biziou and littered with symbolic images . 
as well , it employs wojciech kilar's piece " zycie za zycie' masterfully and beautifully . 
if the film has any flaws , one may find them in laura linney's characterization as meryl , truman's " wife " ( i doubt that betty crocker impersonation would fool anyone ) , and in a subplot involving truman's `father' , which feels curiously incomplete . 
there are a few stupendous sequences , and the film pulls off a wonderful trick : we become truman's audience as much as the loyal viewers in the film . 
they wear buttons asking `how will it end ? ' 
i couldn't wait to know myself , though i didn't exactly want it to end , for this inspired movie is possibly the best-and most complex-summer picture in years . 
synopsis : it's 1977 in a small italian american neighborhood in new york . 
disco music is popular , and the sexual revolution is on , but the people of new york are not happy . 
in fact , they're terrified . 
as in spike lee's do the right thing a heat wave has the city in its grip , and peoples' tempers are flaring . 
the cool of night offers no respite : the neighborhood is being terrorized by a nocturnal psychotic killer who calls himself the son of sam . 
no one knows who the son of sam is , and no one is safe . 
all around new york people are different . 
aside from cultural groupings and ethnic neighborhoods there are differences between individuals . 
in the italian american section of town a philandering husband named vinny ( john leguizamo ) tries to hide his trysts and sexual behavior from his long suffering newlywed wife dionna ( mira sorvino ) . 
vinny's friend ritchie ( adrien brody ) hates disco , works at a gay strip club and doesn't want any of the neighborhood folks to know . 
ritchie's girl ruby ( jennifer esposito ) is trying to escape a reputation as a slut . 
everyone's different , but nobody in the film wants to be framed as " alien " to the community . 
unfortunately , the killings help create a climate of suspicion pits neighbor against neighbor . 
opinion : director spike lee's summer of sam is not about a psycho killer . 
nor is it about cops trying to apprehend him . 
it's about differences and how , given the right conditions , even close neighbors can fan the hostile flames of irrational suspicion . 
one thing i found interesting in summer of sam was the use of sex . 
in other movies sex is glamorized . 
for example , james bond gets a sexual reward for winning . 
or boring made-for-video " suspense " movies are spiked with gratuitous lingerie scenes just to keep the audience awake . 
and every movie or soap opera character in these flicks seems to have expert sexual prowess . 
not so with summer of sam . 
in a very gutsy move director spike lee shows sex without fantasy . 
sex is there , but it isn't gratuitous or titillating . 
in fact , some of the main characters are downright lousy in bed . 
sex is in the film because ( sexual ) deviance is part of the film's major theme of " difference " breeding hostility . 
in my opinion this kind of movie sex is cutting edge for 1999 , as rare and thought-provoking in american cinema as showing a spanking . 
part one of " the strangest movies ever made " series at www . mediajunkies . com 
by scott watson 
[light spoilers , nothing you shouldn't read] 
existenz has been called " a gooey matrix " , and while this is a correct description in some ways , in others it is completely off . 
the only thing the two films have in common is the idea of a virtual reality that is indistinguishable from normal , " real " reality . 
a major difference is that " the matrix " has a base reality that is obviously the true reality , while existenz does the impossible and makes us accept the most bizarre reality ever as true . 
and oh what a reality it is . 
david cronenberg has shown us before that he knows how to create strange movies ( naked lunch , crash ) , but this one is one of the strangest . 
maybe it's because of how the mundane is mixed with the bizarre . 
technology is organic , but only some of it . 
cars are normal . 
gas stations are the same . 
cell phones are glowing bug like appendages . 
you jack into a virtual reality game using a quivering pink gooey animal like apparatus ( referred to simply as a " pod " ) . 
high technology has been replaced with organic creatures , and it provides a truly surreal setting for the characters . 
a famous game designer , allegra geller ( a fine looking jennifer jason leigh ) , flees a demonstration of her latest game , existenz , after an assassination attempt . 
she is on the run ( from who , i'm still not sure ) , and has to save her pod by playing her game with " someone friendly " . 
that someone friendly is her dubious companion and security guard , ted pikul ( jude law ) . 
unfortunately he is lacking a fundamental requirement for playing , a bioport . 
sort of a hole in your spine ( ok , exactly like a hole in your spine ) , a bioport allows you to plug the vaguely entrail-looking wires from the pod into you , allowing you to play the game . 
luckily a bioport can be installed easily ( they install them in malls ) , so off they go to get one . 
after a crazy series of events at the local country gas station , they are able to plug in and play existenz . 
the plot itself is a surreal melding of conspiracies , reality distortion , chinese restaurants , and multi appendaged amphibian things ( " it's a sign of the times " ) . 
but the plot , while cohesive in it's own creepy way is secondary to just trying to figure out what the hell is going on in this universe . 
cronenberg just slaps this weird organic-tech world into the viewers lap , and it's up to you to figure out how all these things work . 
and that's the true joy of this film , entering the vaguely nightmarish world in which existenz takes place . 
you learn a little bit piece by piece ( oh , they make pods out of those ) , and it's just enough to get you to accept the world that is presented to you . 
there are all kinds of twists and turns as the characters wander around , including a fantastic scene in a chinese restaurant that will leave you trying to assemble something out of your moo goo gai pan for months afterwards . 
also the bioports are occasionally used for things other than porting into existenz , the specifics of which i will leave for you to discover . 
there's lots of little things that set off the weird-o-meter , like the little tiny pods that you can buy in the video game store , the two headed amphibian creature , and why that guy at the gas station's name appears to be " gas " . 
it all adds up to a supremely far out trip , and given the choice i think i would rather live in the matrix's virtual world . . . 
oh wait , i already do . 
good films are hard to find these days . 
great films are beyond rare . 
proof of life , russell crowe's one-two punch of a deft kidnap and rescue thriller , is one of those rare gems . 
a taut drama laced with strong and subtle acting , an intelligent script , and masterful directing , together it delivers something virtually unheard of in the film industry these days , genuine motivation in a story that rings true . 
consider the strange coincidence of russell crowe's character in proof of life making the moves on a distraught wife played by meg ryan's character in the film -- all while the real russell crowe was hitching up with married woman meg ryan in the outside world . 
i haven't seen this much chemistry between actors since mcqueen and mcgraw teamed up in peckinpah's masterpiece , the getaway . 
but enough with the gossip , let's get to the review . 
the film revolves around the kidnapping of peter bowman ( david morse ) , an american engineer working in south america who is kidnapped during a mass ambush of civilians by anti-government soldiers . 
upon discovering his identity , the rebel soldiers decide to ransom him for $6 million . 
the only problem is that the company peter bowman works for is being auctioned off , and no one will step forward with the money . 
with no choice available to her , bowman's wife alice ( ryan ) hires terry thorne ( crowe ) , a highly skilled negotiator and rescue operative , to arrange the return of her husband . 
but when things go wrong -- as they always do in these situations -- terry and his team ( which includes the most surprising casting choice of the year : david caruso ) take matters into their own hands . 
the film is notable in that it takes this very simple story line and creates a complex and intelligent character-driven vehicle filled with well-written dialogue , shades of motivation , and convincing acting by all the actors . 
the script is based on both a book ( the long march to freedom ) and a magazine article pertaining to kidnap/ransom situations , and the story has been sharply pieced together by tony gilroy , screenwriter of the devil's advocate and dolores claiborne . 
the biggest surprise for me was not the chemistry between crowe and ryan , but that between crowe and david caruso . 
dug out from b-movie hell , caruso pulls off a gutsy performance as crowe's right hand gun while providing most of the film's humor . 
ryan cries a lot and smokes too many cigarettes , david morse ends up getting everyone at the guerilla camp to hate him , and crowe provides another memorable acting turn as the stoic , gunslinger character of terry thorne . 
the most memorable pieces of the film lie in its action scenes . 
the bulk of those scenes , which bookend the movie , work extremely well as establishment and closure devices for all of the story's characters . 
the scenes are skillfully crafted and executed with amazing accuracy and poise . 
director taylor hackford mixes both his old-school style of filmmaking with the dizziness of a lars von trier film . 
proof of life is a thinking man's action movie . 
it is a film about the choices men and women make in the face of love and war , and the sacrifices one makes for those choices -- the sacrifices that help you sleep at night . 
i must admit i'm going to be a bit biased in my review of the new romantic comedy serendipity , because that also defines how i met my current girlfriend . 
the magic and mystery of our fated encounter is also embodied in the quirkiness and freshness of the very funny and very romantic serendipity . 
i am not a big fan of the romantic comedy genre , but something drew me to this film . 
maybe it was the casting of the underrated jeremy piven in a supporting role , and the hilarious eugene levy . 
maybe it was my hope that john cusack would get the redemption he justly deserves after such crap as high fidelity , con air , and pushing tin . 
but maybe it was because i feel as giddy as a school kid right now with this whole romantic thing currently in my life . 
the story of serendipity is simple . 
two people , john trager ( john cusack ) and sara thomas ( kate beckinsale , looking ever so hot ) , have a chance encounter over a pair of gloves -- with buck henry smack dab in the middle . 
charmed beyond repair , these two knuckleheads grab a sundae together at a caf ? called serendipity , talk about that irresponsible thing called fate and the avenues it leads people down , and spend a few hours at the local ice skating rink . 
but with each of them already involved with other parties , sara has john write his name and number on a $5 bill and she writes her name and number on a copy of love in the time of cholera . 
sara declares that if this " thing " -- let's just call it love -- is destined to happen , fate will bring them together in the future . 
years later and on opposite coasts of america , john and sara -- both engaged but still unsure whether they have found their soul mates -- decide to seek each other out to rest their doubts . 
what happens then is an enjoyable and often hilarious cat-and-mouse game with the fates - involving such items as mistaken identity , a graduate homage , john corbett as a freaky new age musician , and eugene levy as an irate and crazed salesman -- to find out if that " thing " was right after all . 
fortunately , first-time screenwriter marc klein has sketched strong , well-rounded , characters to propel a predictable and corny narrative . 
coupled with deft directing by michael chelsom ( director of the very unfunny town and country and the very funny funny bones ) and the use of time-lapse camera work to illustrate the passage of years -- the film comes off with genuine believability and sincerity . 
both piven and molly shannon make nice sidekick characters 
on the flipside , films such as you've got mail , made in heaven , and even high fidelity are the quiet inspirations for the film's main journey at hand . 
but it's what happens to the unexpecting characters left behind in the romantic wake after john and sara find happiness this is the most unsettling part of the picture . 
in some regards , making a movie is like trying to stretch a rubber band as far as you can without breaking it . 
try too hard , and it snaps ; but too much reservation means someone else will come along and pull it farther . 
in simon birch , director mark steven johnson shows us just how to master the technique : he takes advantage of caution and poise , but also risks his movie with a few bold steps . 
in the end , he's not only holding an unbroken band , but he makes the audience appreciate the lengths he went to direct such a fine feature . 
there's no doubt about it : the film that johnson has crafted is rich . 
he chooses for his setting the quaint town of gravestown , maine - leaves turn bright orange in the fall , the grass is a lush green , pure white snow falls in the winter , and the sky goes on forever . 
the characters continue that turn : our two leads are simon birch ( ian michael smith ) and joe wenteworth ( joseph mazzello ) . 
simon is the smallest baby ever born within the records of the local hospital , and by age twelve he's only two feet tall . 
joe is the bastard son of rebecca ( ashley judd ) , and by age twelve he's ready to know who is father is . 
naturally , the two outcasts become good friends and share many adventures together , from disrupting sunday school to doing community service to playing little league baseball . 
in a wonderfully executed performance by ian michael smith , simon birch is convinced that he's god's instrument , and there must be a reason he's so small . 
joe doesn't quite buy it , but he sticks by simon ; the two tough it out through the worst of times and are each other's only true friends . 
early on , the two meet up with ben goodrich ( oliver platt ) , rebecca's new boyfriend , and although the bond isn't immediate , ben and the two boys develop a liking for each other . 
both platt and judd give solid performances that lend their characters a deep likeability . 
the audience cares about them as much as they do about joe and simon , a testament to the acting jobs of both . 
finally , jim carrey gives a cameo as the adult joe in the present day , and his few minutes here are relatively more impressive than his entire performance in the truman show . 
mark steven johnson's sense of drama and writing is fantastic . 
the script is loosely based on john irving's novel , a prayer for owen meany , but it's so far off the source material that irving actually requested the credits be changed from 'based on' to 'suggested by . ' 
along those same lines , it's almost unfitting to compare the two ; johnson uses tension , humor , atmosphere , and suspense to create an original drama of forrest gumpian proportions . 
by no means has he developed a project of similar popularity - gump made over 300 million dollars while birch ought to pass out of sight in a few weeks - but the winning idea remains the same . 
simon birch is a different look at a different life , and one that will most likely be studied in film school classes in decades to come . 
in the present , however , it's an enjoyable little picture that everyone ought to take a look at . 
on the basis of this film alone , i never would have predicted that , in two years , quentin tarantino would become the country's biggest hotshot director . 
reservoir dogs has hints of the tarantino brilliance that emerged in pulp fiction , but is a much less substantive , more conventional crime story than the big pf . 
here's what the two movies do have in common . . . 
--scenes of intelligent , amusing dialogue with no relevance to the plot --a story that jumps back and forth in time rather than going in a logical , chronological sequence --graphic yet necessary violence --an engaging crime story --dialogue liberally spiced with swear words and racial/gender slurs --three of the same actors ( harvey keitel , tim roth and steve buscemi ) --a mexican standoff ending , although this one is considerably less optimistic than pf 
reservoir dogs is an entire hour shorter than pulp fiction because it's only got one story to tell rather than three . 
crime lord joe cabot ( veteran actor lawrence tierney ) has assembled five criminals who have never even met each other to pull a diamond store heist . 
the five are instructed not to reveal their real names or personal details or anything the cops could use if one of them was captured and interrogated . 
instead , they are all given code names off the color chart -- mr . white ( keitel ) , mr . pink ( buscemi ) , mr . orange ( roth ) , mr . blonde ( michael madsen ) , mr . brown ( tarantino ) and mr . peach ( tarantino's chin ) . 
most of the movie's running time is spent with mr . white and pink waiting at a warehouse for the others to arrive . 
mr . orange , meanwhile , is on the floor , dying from a gunshot wound . 
the police had arrived at the scene of the crime way too soon , leading white to believe one of the five was an informant . 
the story's background unfolds through a series of flashbacks , of the crime itself and the meetings between joe and the criminals prior to the crime . 
eventually , blonde arrives with a police officer hostage , and what follows is a truly brutal , uncomfortable torture scene . 
let's just say picasso would be inspired by what blonde does to the cop's ear . 
a lot of the time , reservoir dogs seems like your typical gangster heist-gone-wrong movie , but there are a few sequences that are uniquely tarantino . 
the opening scene in the coffee shop starts the movie off on a high note the rest of it doesn't live up to , as the criminals plus joe have a conversation on , among other things , tipping philosophies and their interpretations of madonna's " like a virgin . " 
another scene involves roth's lengthy manufactured story about running into a group of cops and a police dog in a bus station bathroom while carrying a giant bag of marijuana . 
neither of these have much plot relevance but are given ample time to develop , like the captain koons gold watch speech in pulp fiction , only here these sequences are more enjoyable than the rest of the movie . 
reservoir dogs is good but it's no pulp fiction . 
it's a fact that a good thriller or action movie doesn't need violence to be good or worth watching . 
all it takes is potential violence to make the audience bite their nails . 
and what kind of violence could be more efficient than a global thermo-nuclear war ? 
and potential violence is the premiss wargames is built upon . 
a computer whiz-kid , david , is usually contended with hacking into the school computer to change his grades . 
but after having read an advertisment for an upcoming computer game , he wants to be the first to play it . 
instead of getting into the computer at protovision software he accidentally comes to the frontgate of norad . 
with the help of jennifer , a girl in his biology class , he starts to play a nice game of nuclear war with wopr , war operation plan response ( a top-notch computer at the time , but now hardly faster than my own computer ) 
i remember being 12 and watching this at the cinema . 
it was very efficent at giving you a scare in those days and that hasn't changed . 
of course , a nuclear war seemed to be much more of something that could actually happen back in 1983 . 
i wouldn't be surprised if this gave people nightmares . 
i hope it still does since you still hear about school kids hacking into the computers at pentagon . 
broderick and sheedy are just fine as the young teenagers ( although her interest in david remains a mystery ) . 
but the rest of the actors are , by no fault of their own , restricted by the script to play one-dimensional grownups . 
david's parents are the same kind of parents that populate all these college comedies from the 1980s , movies like secret admirer , porky's or zapped and the norad general beringer is straight out of dr . strangelove . 
if for no other reason , you should see this movie to enjoy how far the computer technology has gone since those days . 
david uses the same telephone for calling friends as calling other computers . 
the modem is some kind of device that he puts the headset on . 
far from any 56k modem my guess is that it's some kind of 2400 bps modem , the kind of technology you now find at your local technical museum . 
the big computer at norad has a lot of flashing lights ( just like those you see on star trek or any old sf-movie ) but it's hardly impressing compared with what you can get today . 
what are the lessons we can learn from wargames ? 
1 . 
make sure there are no secret backdoors into military computers . 
2 . thank you , whoever it was , for giving us a graphical user interface when we use our computers ! 
there exists a litany of differences between a successful action movie and a successful suspense movie . 
action movies are typically devoid of plot other than a simple byline which can string together several explosive sequences , while suspense movies hinge on plot and subtlety and the ability to bring everything full-circle . 
for fans of both genres , however , realism is key . 
action fans want to know that the weapons and methods their heroes are using are authentic , and suspense fans want everything to fall into an explainable framework by the movie's end . 
on this advice , director john frankenheimer ( the island of dr . 
moreau ) strives for realism in an interestingly dynamic balance of suspense and action for his latest thriller , ronin . 
the depth of intrigue in ronin is quite amazing , considering the fare that's fallen into the same category over the last few years . 
the script , written by j . d . zeik in his big-screen debut , approaches levels of complexity that had people spinning away from mission : impossible two years ago . 
a certain number of people will be lost by this , but afficianados will appreciate it all the more and return multiple times . 
frankenheimer masters the script with poise , and tells us a dark but stoically realistic tale of a group of post-cold war mercenaries working to earn their paycheck . 
his ability to convey feeling and character while promoting explosiveness and tense atmosphere works well here , and ronin becomes a better movie because of it . 
robert de niro headlines this cast of noteworthies in a performance that is the most outstanding of his in quite some time . 
he takes command and offers much gravity as the ex-spy sam , a man who's called to france to help a shady operations controller named dierdre ( natascha mcelhone ) recover a package . 
the package becomes the central motivator for the entire cast , especially once the requisite double-crossing begins , and its role is skillfully penned by zeik . 
at times , however , zeik's tale becomes almost too reminiscent of mission : impossible - de niro might easily become tom cruise , the package might become cruise's computer disk . 
fortunately , the focus here is almost entirely on the package , whereas in mission the script was more concerned with the double-cross and why it happened . 
the action content is impressive , and it lives up to the hints given in previews . 
the only fans who will be disappointed are those who expect full-blown combat scenes and instead are forced to suffer through moments of slowness . 
ronin does take a degree of intelligence to follow all of the nuance from start to finish , but even the uninitiated will be able to keep a grasp on most characters mand subplots . 
the suspense tapers off considerably by the end , a bit of a drawback because of its height at the movie's open . 
considering these factors it's good to see that ronin was a project that turned out well , and it's another good bet this month . 
since quality is usually sparse during the early fall months , it's definitely worth the visit . 
jay and silent bob strike back , kevin smith's swan song to his two most famous characters , is the best received comedy that i've seen since there's something about mary , which is a tea party in comparison to the foul-mouthed humor in jay and silent bob strike back . 
the audience didn't just laugh ; they went wild with boisterous laughter and heavy applause throughout . 
in short , if you like really raunchy humor , you may find it , as i did , to be the funniest movie of the year . 
 ( on the other hand , if you are one of those who walked out in disgust with smith's dogma , then jay and silent bob strike back is not the movie for you . ) 
in one of the fastest paced movies of the year , the story has jay and silent bob ( jason mewes and kevin smith ) , a pair of card carrying drug dealers , traveling from their new jersey convenience store home to hollywood so that they can stop a movie . 
it seems their comic book alter egos , bluntman and chronic , are being used in a movie without jay and silent bob's consent . 
jason biggs and james van der beek are slated to star in it . 
jay and silent bob strike back has more and better used cameos than just about any movie that i've ever seen . 
among others , they include carrie fisher as a bible-toting nun , mark hamill as a comic book version of his famous alter ego and gus van sant as a director too busy counting his money to yell , " action ! " 
best of all are ben affleck and matt damon who mock themselves and their movies . 
the film stops several times to make fun of itself and of the audience who was " stupid " enough to buy tickets to this movie . 
 ( actually , purchasing tickets to this film is extremely smart given that it delivers more laughter per dollar than anything in recent memory . ) 
the film even skewers people who write about movies on the internet . 
guilty . 
although it's filled with inside jokes , you'll still be laughing even if you only get some of them . 
it's easy to understand enough so that they are still funny . 
jay is a motor mouth who hasn't met a subject that he couldn't vulgarize . 
his favorite topic is oral sex , but , being an equal opportunity profaner , he's willing to make crude jokes about absolutely anything . 
but it is his buddy , the aptly named silent bob , who is responsible for most of the movie's success . 
his reaction shots , with his wildly exaggerated eye movements , are comedic gems . 
the story's main subplot concerns four animal rights activists , justice ( shannon elizabeth ) and her three sexy buddies , sissy ( eliza dushku ) , missy ( jennifer schwalbach smith ) and chrissy ( ali larter ) . 
these charlie's angels types give a ride to our heroes on their trek to lalaland to stop the picture . 
jay tries to put the moves on justice , but he doesn't stay in command of the situation for long . 
one of the funnier sight gags has the women using a pink , clam-shaped , birth control case that contains high tech gadgetry . 
granted , it's not the movie for everyone , but , if you like kevin smith's brand of humor , you'll find that this is his best . 
and , as i said earlier , it's the funniest movie of the year thus far . 
no , wait . 
forget , `thus far . ' 
it's bound to be the funniest movie of the year . 
in a time when almost every movie feels obligated to come in at pg-13 so that they can rake in the maximum cash , it's great to see a filmmaker with the guts to target only a mature audience . 
jay and silent bob strike back runs a lightening fast 1 : 35 . 
it is rated r and contains pervasive crude humor and language and sexual situations . 
it would be acceptable for high school seniors and older . 
the film opens nationwide in the united states on wednesday , august 22 , 2001 . 
in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . 
damn those trailers . 
had it not been for the advertising of this film , which reveals far too much about its contents , i would have been glued to `under the sand' . 
as it is , the film retains some value , thanks to an excellent performance by charlotte rampling , and a more mature francois ozon in the director's chair . 
marie ( charlotte rampling ) and her husband jean ( bruno cremer ) lounge on the beach . 
she takes a nap while he goes for a swim . 
when marie wakes up , jean is nowhere to be found . 
she contacts authorities , but they can't find him either . 
did he disappear to start a new life ? 
was he killed by accident ? 
did he commit suicide ? 
marie still asks herself these questions a year later , and in order to move on with her life , she must find some answers . 
it's a fine premise , and this little movie uses it to the limit . 
the film moves at a leisurely pace , a bit slow , but relaxing . 
it's a very visual story , and you can pretty much just sit back without reading the subtitles . 
this is mostly thanks to the excellent camera work by antoine heberle and jeanne lapoirie , who shot the film in a dreamy haze , and the lead performance by rampling . 
rampling is so expressive in her portrayal of marie , you connect with her character instantly , despite that she's delusional . 
the scenes where she interacts with her husband , who she still believes is alive , are heartbreaking . 
she can't quite get over him . 
they've been married for twenty-five years . 
the other actors , particularly jacques nolot , are excellent too . 
the sex in the film is rather unneeded , but compared to ozon's `criminal lovers' , it's the disney channel . 
likely to cause some discussion afterwards , `under the sand' is a fine movie going experience . 
while it's hard to recommend as entertainment , it's a fine adult alternative about how we deal with loss . 
ozon seems to ask what you would do , and that's certainly a hard question to answer . 
bob the happy bastard's quickie review : 
rush hour 
so what's the problem with 48 hours clones these days ? 
they always try for the same thing that eddie murphy and nick nolte had . 
that was the problem that plagued these clones , not to mention the actual sequel : another 48 hours , a complete waste of film . 
but , at last , someone has a different take on the matter , and it's director brett rainer . 
rush hour features jackie chan in his first u . s . action movie , playing a chinese detective who's being flown to the us to investigate the kidnapping of the chinese consulate's daughter . 
of course , the fbi is upset that he'll be interfering in their investigation , and stick him with an lapd office with a big mouth- of course , that's chris tucker . 
what makes rush hour work so damn well is the chemistry between the energetic chan and the absolutely hilarious tucker . 
tucker mouths off to chan at every given opportunity ( " i'm michael jackson , you tito . " ) , and chan delivers a few zingers of his own , as well as some terrific fight scenes . 
the story's pretty much your average fare , but with a decent twist involving the main villain , a highly clouded figure named jun tao . 
at least it's entertaining , and the concept is excellently realized . 
a particular fight scene in a chinese office , where chan and tucker duke it out with the bad guys , is funny and energetic at the same time . 
and the finale's a real treat as well . . . chan 
delivers yet another fantastic stunt for the fans with a 10-story drop . 
rush hour is just the sort of film you'll get a kick out of on any night of the week . 
just make sure you don't look for anything culturally different and you'll be fine- drunken master ii this ain't . 
this sunday afternoon i had the priviledge of attending a private screening at the sony astor cinema in new york city , of james cameron's most heralded film , titanic . 
postponed from last summer , with an escalated budget that makes it the most expensive movie in history , this was one film i was eager to preview . 
so , is this movie going to sink or swim this holiday ? 
my best guess . . . . it will sink , though with many awards attatched to its hull . 
no doubt , titanic is the most elaborate disaster movie ever made . 
it boasts the most amazing effects that i have ever seen done to date . 
to see a ship fall apart , with actual people running across the ship , flying across the deck , and falling to the water , is just amazing to look at . 
the effects are so stunningly realistic , you would swear you were looking at actual footage . 
but titanic is more than a disaster movie , and that's where the problem lies . 
there is a love story attatched that nearly ruins the entire premise . 
i'll give a capsule summary of the story without spoiling anything for you : 
the film begins with a modern day excavation of sorts of the sunken titanic . 
we see actual footage of the sunken ship , as cammeron had set up special cameras to film the wreckage on the ocean floor . 
bill paxton leads the expedition , in search of sunken treasure . 
what he finds instead , leads him to a mysterious old woman who recounts her tale of the titanic voyage . 
we meet rose ( kate winslet ) , a young woman , who comes from an upper-class family . 
rose is to be wed to a man she does not love . 
we meet jack ( leonardo dicaprio ) , a young man , who comes from a poor financial background , and wins a ticket aboard the titanic , in a poker game . 
the two meet under interesting circumstances , and the love story begins . 
add in a jealous fiance , and a not-so-nice law officer played by david warner , and you have a story that , well , gets a bit overplayed and oversappy . 
i must add , at this point , that the most likeable character in the movie is played by kathy bates , as a woman with " new money " who is a lot less uptight than the other rich folk on the ship . 
she is a pleasure to see on screen . 
when the ship does hit the iceberg at exactly 1 : 40 into the film , and eventually sinks , you never really feel for any of these characters . 
the film is just loaded with unlikeable rich snobs and other folk you never really get a grasp on . 
the effects are tremendous . 
from the roars of gears and pumps in the engine room , to a doomed ship cracking at the seams , this is an effects picture that looks and sounds like no other . 
we saw titanic in dolby digital surround , and by far , it is the best sounding movie i have ever seen . 
my friend commented it was the best sound mix he has ever heard . 
when people are in the water , at film's end , you are surrounded by the voices of lost soles . 
titanic runs far too long . 
the movie is 3 hours and 15 minutes in length . 
and , while most of the first 2 . 5 hours runs very fast and well-paced , the final 45 minutes almost comes to a sudden stop , and you realize that this sappy love story has to finish itself out before the movie finally ends . 
don't get me wrong about titanic . . . . it's 
not a bad as i am making it out to be . 
it really is an exceptionaly well-made film . 
the costumes and sets are incredible , and true to the time period . 
the ship is painstakingly created exactly true to form , as we see actual pictures of the modern-day wreckage , transformed into the movie depiction . 
this film will certainly win on effects , costume , set design and sound . 
cameron has certainly made his best film to date . 
unfortunately , titanic is not a best picture candidate . 
it just doesn't have a strong supporting story . 
it's an exceptional disaster film with sappy filler inside . 
it just doesn't have the emotional impact that i suspect mr . cameron was shooting for . 
i predict that titanic will open to likeable reviews . 
it is a film worth seeing . 
i predict that it will only do moderately well at the box office . 
with its extreme running time , and lack of enough robust to get substantial word-of-mouth , i expect that it will do even better on home video . 
this will certainly be the definitive ac3 movie for all you home theater enthusiasts . 
titanic opens december 19th , and is released by paramount pictures and twentieth century-fox . 
i give titanic 3 stars ( . 
that's not bad . 
ron epstein 
riginally posted in home theater forum === 
a common complaint amongst film critics is " why aren't there more literate scripts available ? " 
quiz show gives signs of hope that the art of writing isn't dead in hollywood and that we need not only look to independent films for thoughtful content . 
paul attanasio's script takes what could have been a tepid thriller ( the quiz show scandals of the late 50s ) and delivers a telling parable about the emptiness of the post war american dream and the golden bubble that surrounds and protects tv networks and their sponsors . 
the film is riddled with telling symbols ( e . g . 
a '58 chrysler , a radio announcement of sputnik ) but is never heavy handed . 
deft direction by robert redford and keen performances by ralph fiennes , john turturro and rob morrow dovetail perfectly with the carefully honed script . 
redford departs from the usually overlight , " cable tv quality " sets and camera work so common in recent 20th century period pieces . 
quiz show perfectly captures the colors and textures of the eisenhower years . 
although i was only 4 years old when the " twenty one " scandal broke , enough of the 50s icons survived throughout my childhood for me to recognize the authenticity of redford's almost tangible palette . 
from plastic covered furniture to carefully coifed contestants , the images ring true from that era of rampant consumerism , of a generation that had gone through 15 years of depression and world war without " disposable income , " before the manifestation of its american dream . 
the film deftly weaves several themes together , from assimilation and exclusion of jews from " the good life , " to the lengths that a scion of a literary family will go to to match his father's fame . 
though the 50s audience that is " rocked " by this scandal may initially seem naive to us , they should appear all too familiar , with our current national passion for the rise and fall of icons like michael jackson or tonya harding . 
charles van doren and herbie stemple were the overnight mega celebrities of their day . 
the tv audience is almost a fourth main character , always at the center of the decisions being made on their behalf . 
at the film's end , the credits roll past slow motion footage of that same 50s tv audience , mindlessly laughing at some piece of fluff . 
like the distorted mirror that captured a blurred swastika at the end of cabaret , this " mirror " may reflect an image we're not all that comfortable with . 
whew . this film oozes energy , the kind of breakneck , no- holds-barred , in-your-face risk-taking filmmaking that is seldom seen on screen these days . 
like the marginal , motley bunch of post-apocalyptic youths director danny boyle tries to depict , trainspotting veers on the edge of utter mayhem but ultimately retains its footing and control . 
the result : a movie that is a delightful example of how the medium is the message . 
the message : a bunch of losers with loser names , mark renton ( ewan mcgregor ) , spud ( ewan bremner ) , sick boy ( jonny lee miller ) , tommy ( kevin mckidd ) , and begbie ( robert carlyle ) . 
bored , aimless and restless , their routine consists of getting drunk at the local pub , grooving to techno or glam-rock at the local disco and getting shots up the arm at the local den and procuring cash through a variety of methods , some ingenious , others plainly dumb and desperate . 
not part of the daily dose if obtained , sex is a bonus . 
you can find these characters as they are , foul-mouthed , dirty , pathetic , ugly perhaps but definitely interesting , in irvin welsh's cult novel of the same name . 
what makes the film a completely different experience is how director boyle uses every tool at his disposal to make the filmic medium synchronous with the message . 
one of the first things you'll notice is how the camera seems to dart around restlessly . 
it'll truck into a character's pimple , just as soon as it will dolly out to an establishing shot . 
distracted and curious , it'll maintain a character's eye-level or drop right to the ground to show the doped-out-eye-view . 
you'll even find characters peering into the camera , their faces smeared across the wide-angle lens . 
this film camera is just another one of the guys . 
tiptoeing that indistinguishable line between fantasy and reality , boyle employs a healthy dose of surrealism to get the message across . 
bored kids daydream and bored kids deprived of a heroin fix have nightmares . 
i don't want to give too much away , but if you cross chuckie from child's play with some of the wacky fantasies in heavenly creatures , you might have an idea just how fun or pants-wetting scary the alternate state of consciouness can be . 
that said , this film has a good share of drugs - consumed , vomitted , defecated , pissed off , exchanged , bought , sold , injected , smuggled , enjoyed and regretted . 
if that isn't your cup of tea , nobody forced you to see the film . 
stay at home and rent up close and personal . 
and what's a buzz without tunes . 
from pulp to iggy pop ( yes , he's still alive ) , the aural landscape is as engaging as the visual energy permeating the film . 
good and bad vibrations tangle like the conflicting desires and values of the message . 
every once in a while , a film comes along with the kind of energetic filmmaking that matches the intensity of its characters it hopes to depict . 
trainspotting is that shooting star that burns across a sky littered with static constellations . 
dom is a part-time filmmaker who graduated from northwestern university's radio/tv/film programme not too long ago . 
he has laboured on various music videos and short films in and around campus and chicago . 
nowhere town , a 26min short film that he shot , co-directed and co-produced recently scooped up the grand jury prize at the charleston international film festival for best student production . 
he is currently finishing a couple of small projects . 
with his minute amounts of leisure time , dom does nell impersonations . 
steven spielberg's " amistad , " which is based on the true story of a group of africans who revolted on board a slave ship , then were captured and taken to america where a legal dispute ensued over who " owned " them , is concerned with several different aspects of this story . 
first , the film addresses the issue of the inherent evils of slavery . 
second , it deals with the historical involvement of several american politicians in the case , including president martin van buren and former president john quincy adams ( anthony hopkins ) . 
last , and most importantly , it examines the cultural confusion experienced by the africans who were forced into slavery and the damage done to their native culture in africa by the slave trade . 
 " amistad " succeeds at least partly with all three of these elements . 
i have to admit that i was a little skeptical as to how much i could really get out of another " anti-slavery " movie . 
having seen several other movies and documentaries about slavery , i doubted that there was much i didn't already know about it . 
fortunately , i turned out to be wrong . 
for one thing , spielberg's camera never once gets near a southern plantation and instead sticks to the slave ships and the slave traders' operations in africa , so " amistad " was dealing with a different part of the history of slavery from the very beginning . 
and some of the images here are , in fact , much more harrowing than what we usually see in movies about slavery . 
one scene in the middle , in which the crew of a slave ship dispose of some of their " excess " slaves by throwing them overboard to drown , has to be one of the most disturbing film images of the year . 
spielberg digs farther into the evils of slavery than i was expecting he would , and in fact he probably goes about as far as a movie director can without getting an nc-17 rating . 
the stark suffering of the africans is contrasted sharply with the shallow luxury of the politicians , such as president van buren and queen isabella of spain , whose naval officers were involved in the legal dispute and who was only a small child at the time . 
exposing politicians as narrow-minded , opportunistic hypocrites is fairly standard stuff , of course , but spielberg and writer david franzoni do it well enough that it still comes off as something more than just a simple exercise in audience manipulation . 
the film also examines the contentious nature of the slavery issue at the time , such that john quincy adams ( and probably other politicians like him ) , who clearly disapproved of the practice , was reluctant to get involved in the case until it was appealed all the way to the supreme court . 
the biggest success of " amistad " is probably the characterization of cinque ( djimon hounsou ) , who emerges as the de facto leader of the kidnapped africans and struggles to communicate with baldwin ( matthew mcconaughey ) , the lawyer who represents them in court . 
through cinque , we are given a window into the native culture , as he and the displaced africans try to explain to the prison guards what they need for a proper burial of a dead tribe member , or find an illustrated version of the bible and try to understand the story of jesus christ . 
cinque sees the dispute with a clarity and simplicity that , again , contrasts with the technicalities and mechanics of the legal process and of the political squabbles . 
 " what kind of country is this , where laws 'almost' work ? " he asks baldwin in bewilderment , when he learns that the case must be re-tried before the supreme court . 
spielberg's direction tends a little bit towards the manipulative side at times , such as when he adds a heavy orchestral swell to cinque's angry outburst in the court room . 
still , there isn't enough of this for it to be a serious problem . 
the main flaw in this film , which prevents it from earning four stars , is that it seems like spielberg and franzoni can't quite handle all of these issues at the same time , so instead they settle for addressing each one separately and simply editing the results into the same movie . 
this summer's contact , for example , dealt with several issues at once , but each of them was somehow present in almost every scene and , most importantly , all of them were resolved at once . 
 " amistad " tries to pull it all together in the end with a speech from adams , but it somehow feels a little forced , and in any case the speech itself , which lasts almost fifteen minutes , wears out its welcome about halfway through . 
perhaps the best way to describe it is this : " amistad " is three four star films edited into one . 
almost every individual scene works , but the final product is lacking the necessary focus and coherence , and thus is less than the sum of its parts . 
however , i can't honestly say how it could have been done differently , and in any case the story comes through with enough raw emotional power that it is still a very good film , and thus i recommend it to anyone who can handle the disturbing imagery . 
he has spent his entire life in an awful little apartment , raised and cared for and imprisoned by his domineering mother . 
she inspires his love and his fear , and instills in him a similar love and fear of jesus . 
he has a rudimentary grasp of language , mouthing monosyllables and repetitions of his mother's phrases . 
he is taught that the world outside is fatally poisonous ; his mother dons a gasmask whenever she goes out the door . 
he is 35-years-old in body , but a child in mind and spirit . 
he is the premise for bad boy bubby , a defiantly original australian movie about a man called bubby ( nicholas hope ) who has spent his entire life in an awful little apartment , etc . , etc . then one day his father ( ralph cotterill ) appears . 
his father is a shabby down-at-heels priest who appears to have permanently misplaced his religion . 
unsurprisingly , he is not thrilled with the way " his " boy has turned out . 
he is , however , rather pleased at renewing his acquaintance with the mother ( claire benito ) , and , more to the point , her ample breasts . 
soon they are copulating on the dingy couch , while bubby crouches , confused , in the next room , acutely aware that the mother who had devoted all her attention to him has a new interest . 
bubby's relationship to the world may be warped , but it is at least stable . 
the father's arrival disturbs his precarious balance , causing an oedipal conflict which ends--freud would be pleased--in violence and , as a result , freedom . 
bubby intuits from his father's arrival that the air outside is breathable : he leaves the apartment , his past , his world , behind . 
so far , so good . 
the first thirty minutes or so of bad boy bubby , which bring us to this point , are quite brilliant . 
the movie is at its best when its stays within the constraints of bubby's hermetic two-room universe . 
it follows through unrelentingly on the implications of its premise : bubby is used by his mother for sex , he unwittingly suffocates the pet cat with cellophane , he is terrifed by the notion that jesus will beat him senseless if he sins . 
it is grim and savage and appalling , but also strangely tender--de heer , having imagined a life as bizarre as bubby's , does not exaggerate for comic or grotesqe purposes , but simply empathizes . 
he observes what it might be like . 
the intensity of these opening scenes , with their minimalist mise-en-scene , immerses us in a claustrophobic environment which seems to be a decayed stratum of our own world , and owes much to david lynch's eraserhead , not least the ambient industrial white noise of the soundtrack . 
for thirty minutes , the movie maintains the feel and mood of a reality that does not seem far removed from our own . 
then de heer lets bubby out , brings him into contact with our world , and the film never quite recovers . 
our unlikely hero finds himself in port adelaide , where he wanders the streets and meets people , where he suffers and learns and survives . 
he is seduced by a young woman from a salvation army band ( how an anti-social half-wit with no sense of hygiene manages to get laid mere hours after his escape is not the sort of question the film encourages , wisely ) ; he is given free pizza by a sympathetic waitress ; he insults a traffic cop and is punched in the stomach ; he shares a few beers in the back of a truck with a rock group ; he is imprisoned and raped ; he becomes a translator for mentally handicapped people whose speech is impaired beyond comprehension ; he is loved by a motherly large-breasted nurse ( carmel johnson ) . 
 . 
 . 
it goes on , by turns inventive , silly , tasteless , endearing , and sometimes all of these things at once . 
de heer never seems to be sure how bubby should interface with the real world : the tone shifts , uneasily , from fable to realism to satire and back again . 
the scenes which try to touch base with a believable version of reality are the weakest ; the film is best understood as a kind of parable , and , indeed , the religious implications of bubby's experiences are foregrounded : icons of jesus on the cross hang from the mother's walls , bubby dons a priest's collar stolen from his father , a church organ-playing atheist lectures him on the necessity of unbelief , the woman who redeems him is named angel . 
the manifold stresses of our world do not shatter bubby's mind , do not fragment him into psychosis ; rather , the world accomodates him , and heals him . 
although de heer's touch is at times overbearing , bubby's salvation is touching ; what seemd at first a harsh lesson in the damaging effects of the social construction of reality becomes a na ? ve humanist tale of improbable hope . 
a hapless rock group write a song about bubby and sing it for him and so give him the gift of community . 
he returns the favour when he steps on stage one night and becomes their frontman , turning the fragmented impressions of his experiences into performance art , and turning the band into a popular draw . 
innocence triumphs . 
bubby becomes a holy fool , an idiot savant , and graces us with wisdom . 
it's a strange turn of events , but by now we shouldn't be surprised , because bad boy bubby ain't like other movies . 
being that it is a foreign language film with no known names with a select number theaters showing it , " shall we dance " won't be seen by that many people . 
and that's a shame - this is a funny , enchanting , and goofy movie full of laughs , surprises , and wonderful dance sequences . 
the surprising thing about " shall we dance " is the universal appeal of the story . 
a us version is in the works , and it's no wonder - it's not really all that culture specific . 
although there is a narrated set-up that adds some extra resonance to the proceedings ( about the view the japanese culture has about ballroom dancing ) , the movie is so rich in character and appeal that this added layer isn't at all necessary to understand or enjoy the film . 
the only important unexplained japanese-specific reference that may leave some a bit puzzled is that 1000 yen is roughly $10 ( when you see the film - and you should see this film - you'll know why ) . 
a middle aged company man realizes that achieving all the goals he set for himself in life ( a house , a child , and good marriage ) still doesn't translate into a fulfilled life . 
after glimpsing a melancholy beauty looking out from a dance studio window while on the train home from work , sugiyana ( koji yakusho ) decides after some trepidation to take up ballroom dance lessons in order to meet the woman who has stirred something in himself . 
after finding the weekly fees for private lessons from the elegant and beautiful mai ( tamiyo kusakari ) too rich for his blood , sugiyama opts for groups lessons simply to be near her . 
we then meet the players in this gem of a movie , who all have their own reasons for joining the class . 
later on , we meet aoki at the dance studio ( naoto takenaka ) , a co-worker and all out weirdo and one of the laugh riot highlights of the film . 
the story , laughs , and touching scenes evolve as the movie goes along . 
it's a pleasure to watch such a wonderful film that is propelled almost solely by the characters and performances . 
it's difficult to explain the charms of the film without revealing too much - the movie abounds with little revelations that subtly shape the characters , and in the end , each one is that much fuller and more understood by the time you leave the theater . 
it's one of those movies that only the french seem to make anymore - no big plot , no special effects , no gunplay , no tragic consequences , no forced examinations of the nature of love , and no insights into the nature of evil . 
just a warm , funny , endearing film that will charm the pants off of you . 
when was the last time you left a theater feeling all warm and fuzzy inside ? 
 " shall we dance " will do that to you without any treacly aftertaste . 
when i first heard of contact , the hype was building it up as a sci-fi blockbuster . 
now , with that in mind , coupled with the knowledge of jodie foster's involvement in the project , i thought " what in the world is foster doing in a sci-fi blockbuster ? ? ? " . 
as it turned out , my expectations were completely nullified and turned topsy-turvy . 
robert zemeckis , back from the euphoria created by his last film , forrest gump , once again proves his mastery in fusing tales of adventure with along the endearing lines of human spirit . 
don't get me wrong , contact is sci-fi ? but with a definite difference . 
based on the late carl sagan novel of the same name , the story delves itself in questions on science and god ; fact and faith . 
allie ( foster ) is a radio astronomer . 
she spends her time listening to the stars , via ultra-huge communication dishes in search of intelligent life beyond the solar system . 
her passion for `long-distance communication' is the result of her younger days being spent avidly in front of a ham-radio system ( a hobbyist radio communication device ) which her late-father bought for her . 
a scene which particularly strengthens the audiences' view of the passion is when she asked her father whether she could contact her late-mother through the ham-radio system in which her father replied " not even the most powerful radio in the world can do that , now " . 
allie's research is based on the seti project ( search for extra terrestrial intelligence ) , in which she listens to radio emissions from other galaxies in the hope of finding one which would suggest intelligent manipulation . 
her work has never been off the scrutiny of the us government , which considers it a waste of taxpayer's money and politically unviable , her supervisor ( tom skerritt ) pulls the plug on seti . 
undaunted , allie managed to gather a loyal group of `believers' and eventually found funding from a large private corporation . 
the following months were treacherous to their hopes and research as they are contantly pressured by the government but all that changed when one day , she caught an emission of a seemingly intelligent repeating sound-wave . 
the news of her find attracted hordes of alien believers , cultist , the media and of course , the government . 
the situation became intense upon her discovery of pictorial plans on building a form of transport which were embedded within the repeating sound emission . 
as the world join forces to build this transport , allie is desperate to be the one to go . 
she enrols herself among a few hopefuls , to represent the world when the transport is ready for operation . 
her eligibility for the spot failed when she is questioned on her beliefs in the existence of god by the president's spiritual advisor ( mcconaughey ) ; allie , being an atheist , a result of her belief in fact and science , refuses to budge upon questioning . 
at this point the movie plot thickens considerably as she is romantically involved with the president's spiritual advisor . 
a strong point which propelled the movie is the depth of its main characters played by foster and mcconaughey . 
from the very first meeting scene , it is obvious that the two of them was sort of kindred spirits but they were worlds apart in almost all aspects , foster being a person drawn to science and facts and mcconaughey being one who believes in faith , hope and the power of the unseen . 
the meeting of their worlds , added with the situation which they are put into makes the entire storytelling process near flawless . 
many people who read the synopsis of this film would find it a tad too ridiculous , but by actually immersing yourself in it , gives you an entirely different perspective ; one which is free from bias and pre-conceptions . 
zemeckis and his team of screen writers have done a remarkable job in telling this tale through film . 
contact works by not delving in controversy but rather , touches the thinking audience , urging them to ponder upon the questions raised in the film concerning fact and faith ; whether one can actually find compromise within . 
i consider contact as one of the must-sees for this year . 
you've got to love disney . 
no matter what they serve up , it is a guaranteed success as long as it's animated . 
kids have to go see the movie . 
then they have to get the toys . 
oh , the video came out ? 
got to buy it , or risk little billy's temper tantrums for the next month . 
all of this culminates in the childhood equivalent of a pilgrimage to mecca : a visit to the magic kingdom . 
stay at the disneyland hotel ! 
buy a disney t-shirt ! 
eat an ice cream mickey mouse on a stick ! 
it's both a vertical and horizontal monopoly when you think about it . 
dale carnegie should have had it so good . 
what's most amazing is that all this success is in spite of a severe lack of originality . 
you see , disney animated features these days have two components : theme and plot . 
the theme changes with each new movie ; the plot does not . 
the plot is a mold into which the characters of some ancient fable are dropped , and try as they might to rise above the characters of previous features , they are nearly always destined to do no more than the same . 
however , while the success of a disney animated feature is generally a given as far as box-office receipts , merchandising dollars , and glimmers in the eyes of little children , critically they are as varied as anything else that hollywood has to offer . 
luckily , disney's latest animated offering , mulan , manages to be engaging and refreshing , even while rife with formula . 
the film starts with the invasion of ancient china by the huns , led by the imposing shan-yu ( miguel ferrer ) . 
soon , china's emperor ( pat morita ) mobilizes his armies and decrees that one male from each family in the country shall serve to fight in china's defense . 
when the fa family is served notice , it is the elderly father , fa zhou ( soon-tek oh ) who must answer the call , as there are no other males in the household . 
fearing her father will surely be killed in battle , fa mulan ( ming-na wen ) disguises herself as a man and sneaks off with the royal orders to join the chinese army . 
mulan , based on a chinese epic poem , is a classic tale of the triumph of the ugly duckling . 
mulan herself is a disgrace to her loving family , as she has a difficult time fitting into the traditional woman's role , and in a very amusing scene where a matchmaker attempts to assess her value to a potential husband , we see that " grace " is not one of her strong points . 
very early on , we are presented with the high importance of bringing honor to one's family , and by botching her chance at gaining the favor of the matchmaker , mulan fails at that task . 
by leaving home to fight in her father's place , she may not only spare his life , but bring honor , too . 
as is the case with most disney musicals , the songs are first rate and pervasive throughout the film . 
i'm not sure if they will get much airplay , but at least one of the songs will no doubt receive recognition come oscar time . 
both lea salonga , who provides the singing voice for mulan , and donny osmond who sings for shang , the captain of mulan's army unit and obligatory love interest , are more than competent , although salonga's voice translates much better to animation . 
you have to hear it to understand . 
interestingly , the musical numbers which are so often done with big flourishes are surprisingly muted in mulan . 
there is no significantly big number , which is customary as the second or third song in a disney film , but this does not detract significantly from the rest of the movie . 
it is , however , an expectation which has been built by disney's own formulaic history , and some viewers may feel as if something is missing . 
artistically , the animators have chosen to adopt the more subdued pastels of chinese artwork , and although this may not live up to the vibrance so associated with many of the other disney works , it helps to contribute a more authentic , and therefore more credible , nature to what otherwise may be seen as a typically " disneyfied " ethnic tale . 
there are also a couple of visually standout scenes , one involving the charge of shan-yu's hun army , which utilizes the same computer-enhanced imagery disney animators have employed since the chandelier in beauty and the beast . 
the other scene worth mentioning is so quick you might miss it . 
when mulan resolves to take her father's place , she dons her father's old battle armor , and unsheathes a sword . 
as she does so , you can see her reflection in the polished metal . 
it just left me thinking , " that was really cool . " 
a wonderful range of performances delight the audience throughout the film , varying from the straight , such as soon-tek oh as fa zhou , to the comical , such as harvey fierstein as yao , a gruff , pugilistic member of shang's conscripted army . 
even more outrageous is eddie murphy as mushu , the diminutive guardian dragon sent to look after mulan . 
although an obvious attempt to relive the chemistry brought forth by robin williams in aladdin , murphy nevertheless distinguishes himself with his own winning performance . 
i found the choice of b . d . 
wong as shang a little strange ( you may remember him as martin short's wedding planner assistant in the father of the bride ) , but they used robbie benson for the voice of the beast in beauty and the beast , so i guess anything's possible . 
in any event , wong performs admirably as well . 
one character which provides a significant amount of humor is grandmother fa . 
she deserves recognition not only because of the levity she brings to the movie , but also because she is voiced by two very remarkable people . 
june foray , who supplies grandmother fa's speaking voice , is a venerable voice actress who may be best known for her work as rocky the squirrel and natasha fatale ( as in boris and natasha ) . 
marni nixon , who provides grandmother fa's singing voice , is the same vocalist who dubbed the voices for anna in the king and i , maria in west side story , and eliza in my fair lady . 
with this in mind , hearing grandmother fa is like listening to a little piece of history . 
mulan is the latest disney animated feature to get away from some of the eurocentrism which for so long dominated disney films . 
in an effort to be culturally sensitive ( and to avoid a " miss saigon " -type debacle ) , disney has also wisely chosen to employ many asian-american actors for both lead and supporting roles . 
in addition to the actors already mentioned , the cast includes such ubiquitous talents as james hong , gedde watanabe , james shigeta , and george takei . 
i guess clyde kusatsu wasn't available . 
at a running time of slightly under an hour and a half , mulan moves quickly and provides solid entertainment for both children and , happily , adults . 
this is the kind of disney feature that makes you wonder what they will do next , rather than hope that the next one is better . 
with three pre- to mid-teen children and an aging father-in-law to care for--cooking and cleaning and laundry , drop-offs at little league practice and pick-ups from ballet practice--margaret hall's life is rife with complications . 
and with her naval officer husband stationed somewhere in the north atlantic , virtually impossible to reach by telephone , margaret leads the crazed life of a single parent . 
but margaret's hectic world is about to get a lot more complicated . 
her teenage son beau , a talented trumpet player with strong prospects of being accepted into wesleyan university's music program , has fallen in with the wrong crowd . 
his mother drives from their idyllic , lakeside community of tahoe city , california to the sprawling urban metropolis of reno , nevada , with its imposing concrete superstructures and seedy neon-lit nightclubs , to confront the 30-something man who has befriended beau . 
 " stay away from my son " margaret warns darby reese . 
her words , however , appear to fall on deaf ears as reese turns up drunk at the family homestead later that evening , urging beau to join him in the boathouse . 
there are words and advances and some pushing and shoving and beau runs back into the house , passed his startled mother , as the crack of a wooden railing giving way breaks the cold blue silence and an intoxicated reese tumbles out of sight . 
the next day , on her morning walk , margaret discovers reese's lifeless body lying crumpled on the shoreline , a boat anchor impaled in his chest . 
with her maternal instincts working overtime , margaret quickly ferries the body out into the lake , weighs it down , and dumps it overboard . 
but margaret's life is about to get a lot more complicated . 
soon after the body is discovered , snagged on a local fisherman's line , margaret is paid a visit by an attractive-seeming blackmailer in a red nova . 
alek spera threatens to hand over compromising videotape of beau to the police unless margaret comes up with $50 , 000 by 4 o'clock the next day . 
but margaret's life is about to get a lot more complicated , for alek turns out to be something she never expected . 
based on elisabeth sanxay holding's novel " the blank wall , " " the deep end " is a well-crafted thriller written and directed by scott mcgehee and david siegel ( " suture " ) . 
it makes the most of a talented but not particularly well-known cast--goran visnjic plays alek with a suave likeability , jonathan tucker shines as the conflicted beau , peter donat is amusing as grandfather hall , and josh lucas has an equally small but effective role as the hapless darby reese . 
the film is also lovingly photographed by giles nuttgens and features an evocative score , courtesy peter nashel . 
but it owes everything to british actress tilda swinton . 
swinton , whose pale-faced ethereal beauty has graced many of derek jarman's films ( " caravaggio , " " edward ii , " " the last of england " ) , plays margaret hall in " the deep end " and , like charlotte rampling in this year's " under the sand , " turns in a commanding and accomplished performance . 
margaret is a devoted mother who is willing to risk everything to protect the ones she loves , and swinton captures every frustration , every fear , every subtle examination and every fervent realization and every nervous oscillation of her being . 
the role calls for an extremely wide range of emotions none the least of which is simply playing a mother beset with a multitude of domestic responsibilities . 
many can relate to that , of course ; it's the murder cover-up and the blackmail and the fear of losing one's son that swinton so gracefully , so graciously , makes resonate with the truest of colors . 
the end is deep all right , and there isn't a single shallow moment in tilda swinton's canon . 
i hate to burst your bubble , but after all the star power , mega bucks , screenwriters , directors , and cool trailers , men in black is not the best movie of the summer . 
it's pretty good in it's own right , yes , but i would probably split the " best movie " honors among face/off , spawn , con air , and maybe event horizon . 
it's main problem is that it's quickly forgettable , and i can't remember one truly good scene from it . 
from con air , it was the scene out in the desert when they were digging the plane out from the dirt . 
in spawn , it was the " living room hell " conclusion at the end . 
in event horizon , it was the video of the event horizon crew being taken over by hell's forces . 
and all of face/off was pretty dang good . 
but as for men in black , the only scene i still recall is when will smith is squishing all those giant roaches . 
i remember it not for it's humor but because i am hate roaches with a passion and was pretty disgusted . 
and yes , i did see mimic , which is something i'll touch on in a later review . 
back to men in black ( is it just me , or does that sound funny ? ) 
i remember first hearing about men in black back when i was a comic geek in the 7th grade and read magazines like wizard , etc . ( for those of you who aren't comic-geeks , wizard is basically to comics what car and driver is to cars , what the new yorker is to high society , what boy's life is to boy scots . 
okay , that one was pretty pathetic . ) 
few people know this , but men in black is based on a very obscure comic book that was , while not honest-politician-rare , very hard to find . 
this was after the release of the high-grossing batman forever , and it said that tommy lee jones and chris o'donnell were being considered for the roles ( in the comic book , there were no black men in black . 
kind of weird , huh ? ) 
all i can say is , thank god they didn't cast chris o'donnell . 
i know i can't be the only person on the planet who thinks he's an annoying , preppie little snot . . . 
sorry . 
my apologies to o'donnell fans . 
i actually had a 7th grade teacher who was a big comic collector and was set to buy some of the comics from him , anticipating rather craftily that , if the movie was a big hit , it would drive up the price of the comics rather nicely . 
he decided not to sell them to me , because they were " innappropriate " . 
hmm . . . . 
so now you're probably wondering why i've wasted about 5 paragraphs with lame anecdotes from my junior high years . 
good question . 
i'll move on to the movie now . 
as you probably already know , will smith and tommy lee jones ( agents k and j , respectively ) belong to a top secret agency known as divison 5 , or it's nickname mib ( men in black . ) 
men in black is a reference to the black suits and sunglasses the agents wear , and they're mission is to investigate reports of alien landings and keep the aliens under control while they're here on earth . 
not to get too technical or spoil the plot for the 6 people in the world who haven't seen this movie , but a basically-big-roach-type-bug lands in a redneck farmer's yard , inhabits his body , and attempts to destroy the entire universe . 
not bad , eh ? ( i have no idea why i just typed that . 
i'm not even really paying attention anymore . ) 
the special effects are good yet dissapointing in men in black . 
i found their main headquarters to be boring , as were the " cool weapons " they had . 
the noisy cricket just plain sucked , no matter what anyone said . 
and the movie definitely surprised me in tone , although it probably shoudln't have . 
it's director , barry sonnenfield , is known for " black humor " , directing both addams family movies . 
this movie was basically a " black comedy " , not an action/sci-fi like i expected from the trailers . 
don't get me wrong on what i think of this movie . 
it's not bad , i gave it * * * . 
it was mostly entertaining throughout it's run , and had a very good ending , although i think i was the only person in the theater not amazed by it . 
my diagnosis for this picture : a good weekend rental , but not worth a movie ticket . 
of course , the movie is now long gone from theaters , but that's beside the point . 
i think . 
susan granger's review of " osmosis jones " ( warner bros . ) 
if the farrelly brothers taught anatomy & physiology in school , no one would cut ever class . 
this hip , live action/animation story begins as a monkey snatches a hard-boiled egg from frank , a zookeeper ( bill murray ) , who grabs it back , drops it , then gobbles up the contaminated morsel , explaining , " if it hits and ground and you pick it up within 10 seconds , you can eat it . " 
like " fantastic voyage " ( 1966 ) , the pseudo-science animation then takes over when his body's immune system contacts traffic control as an ingested virus hits the digestive system : " be on the alert for illegal organisms ! " 
eager to right " a stomach evacuation mistake " he once made , a cocky , clever , courageous white blood cell ( chris rock ) declares , " this is a crime scene ! " 
and teams up with a conscientious " phi beta capsule " 12-hour cold remedy called drixenol ( david hyde pierce ) to chase down and destroy the deadly " red death " virus ( laurence fishburne ) that's determined to take frank down in 48 hours , beating ebola and e . coli to a medical record . 
watch out for mucus mudslides , chaos in cerebellum hall and the detritus from booger dam ( runny nose ) , along with comic turns from molly shannon and chris elliot , plus the voices of william shatner and brandy norwood . 
peter and bobby farrelly , along with writer mark hyman and animation directors piet kroon and tom sito , have turned their penchant for gross-out comedy , encompassing flatulence , festering sores and " popping a pimple without a permit , " into a funny , farrelly-funny family film . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " osmosis jones " is a wildly imaginative , original , explosive 7 . 
and perhaps , as they're laughing , kids will learn where to find their uvula , along with nuggets about nutrition and hygiene . 
i must say from the outset that i have never been much of a kurt russell fan . 
i've seen some of his films ( silkwood , backdraft , unlawful entry ) and while he gave adequate performances , i have never been impressed with his work . 
breakdown , then , is something of a surprise . 
russell gives a fine performance , as do most of the cast , one that is not upstaged by the action orchestrated in the second half of the film . 
to say that he holds the film together would not be completely true , but he does it no harm . 
russell plays jeff , one half of a married couple travelling with his wife amy ( kathleen quinlan ) cross country to san diego to start a new job and a new life . 
while journeying through the desert their car breaks down and , left helpless and stranded , jeff waves down a passing truck driver ( j . t . 
walsh ) who offers to take them to a nearby diner to call for a tow truck . 
because of a nasty incident earlier with a couple of ruffians , jeff decides to stay with the car while amy gets help . 
that , it seems , is the last time jeff ( or anyone else ) sees her . 
breakdown has been compared to several movies : george sluizer's the vanishing ( the original , hopefully , not his appalling hollywood remake ) , steven spielberg's duel and any number of hitchcock films . 
as with these , breakdown does not , for the most part , stray down the conventional path of the american action-thriller . 
jeff does not become a gun-toting vigilante on the hunt for his wife , but instead becomes a scared , confused everyman who has no idea what the hell is going on . 
when we do find out what has happened to amy , it does come as a slight disappointment , if only because it's too early in the film ; i for one could have done with an extra twenty minutes or so of mystery and bewilderment , but this affects the film little . 
russell , as mentioned earlier , is very good in his role , and kathleen quinlan is nowhere near as annoying as she was in apollo 13 . 
j . t . 
walsh , as the possibly evil truck driver , is terrific ; he is one of the best of the fine batch of character actors hollywood doesn't seem to know what to do with , but director jonathan mostow is on the right track here . 
the reason he makes such a great villain is that he actually looks like a real person , one anyone would be able to trust , which makes the plot that much more believable . 
breakdown is what hollywood doesn't make enough of , a great thriller with believable characters and scenes that do , indeed , have viewers on the edge of their seats . 
one of the most genuinely exciting films i've seen in a long time . 
with the success of the surprise hit alien , directed by ridley scott , a sequel was inevitable . 
in fact , after watching the first film , a sequel was wanted , particularly by this reviewer . 
handing over the director's chair to recent box office gem james cameron , who had only made two films previous to this one ( pirahna ii , a surprisingly dull film , and terminator , making cameron a household name ) , the alien series got a face-lift of immense proportions . 
instead of being a suspense/science fiction film , cameron alters the series and changing it into an action picture . 
what results is one of the most terrifying films ever created . 
a film like aliens comes along only once in a while , and when it does , audiences are usually unprepared for it . 
i never saw this movie in theaters , but i wish i could have . 
the terror and fright must have been unimaginable , most likely with audiences members literally shrieking in fear . 
aliens is an action film unlike any i have ever seen . 
with a science fiction plot , cameron gives aliens added testosterone , pumping up the action and fire power from the original film . 
in fact , aliens is one of those few sequels which tops the original . 
perhaps what makes the alien series so impressive is the hero--or heroine , as the case may be . 
never have we had a more sympathetic hero in an action film , and never have i seen such an impressive acting job done by the main character . 
sigourney weaver is possibly the only actress who could play this character and make her realistic enough for us to care about . 
placing a woman in these situations would sometimes seem unusual , but because of weaver's presence , a woman is the only suitable hero . 
aliens begins 57 years after alien ended . 
lieutenant ellen ripley ( weaver ) is discovered in hypersleep on the nostromo and is awakened . 
she explains how she is the only survivor of her past encounter with the aliens , but " the company " is doubtful . 
they explain that a colony of families is flourishing on the same planet from which she just left . 
despite stern warnings from ripley , the company remains rigid and won't call the families back . 
however , when the company loses contact with the colony , ripley's story seems much more feasible . 
one of the company's directors , carter burke ( paul reiser ) , wants to gather a team to travel to the planet . 
this team includes a buff private vasquez ( jenette goldstein ) , a questionable corporal hicks ( michael biehn ) , and a loyal android bishop ( lance henriksen ) . 
burke tags along with ripley as they fly to the planet in order to locate the members of the colony . 
arriving on the planet , the team finds most of the human life extinguished in a cocoon-type environment . 
the only survivor is 12 year old rebecca " newt " jorden ( carrie henn ) . 
ripley finds this a chance to be the mother she never had the opportunity to become , and she becomes newt's surrogate mother . 
ripley and newt are the only ones who knows what has happened , and soon , all hell breaks loose . 
aliens not only multiplies the thrills and suspense from scott's version , it also multiplies the number of aliens in general . 
alien focused on one alien in particular which systematically killed each crew member , except ripley , who managed to jettison the alien out of the nostromo . 
aliens focuses on an entire race of these aliens , and as a result , the chills are incredibly heightened . 
then again , this is james cameron , the guy who has given us true lies and terminator 2 : judgment day . 
he is the best action director out there ( topping renny harlin , who directed cliffhanger ) , and only he could create something as terrifying as this film . 
it seems that every alien film seems to have some memorable scene or scenes , and aliens has the motherload . 
with perhaps one of the most astonishing endings ever created for an action film , aliens climax never seems to hit until the viewer is nearly pushed to extreme exhaustion . 
i can't recall another film ever to sustain this level of intensity throughout , never dropping for a moment . 
just when you think the movie is over , something else will occur , and it starts right back up again . 
with a seemingly endless conclusion , aliens ends with one of the greatest moments in film history . 
this scene is usually the one remembered most from the film , as lieutenant ripley steps into one of the lifting machines to fight the alien queen . 
using flawless special effects , the climax is exhausting , leaving any audience member drained from extreme anxiety . 
of course , for a film of this genre to work properly , the technical aspects must be realistic enough for us to believe what we see . 
aliens is completely realistic , even a decade after its initial release . 
the special effects are wonderfully seamless , with a terrifying alien to go with them . 
one of the most overlooked aspects of this film is the music , composed by cameron-regular james horner . 
horner has created a terrific score , receiving an oscar nomination for his work . 
not only that , horner has also created one of the best scores for any action film , or science fiction film ever ( and that includes 2001 : a space odyssey , which was mainly a compilation of well-known composers ) . 
in fact , the climax music is also some of the most recognized of film music . 
the production design is incredible , which also happened to snag a nomination from the academy . 
dark corridors lit by red lights are very impressive , but more impressive is the amount of terror which arises from well-lit locations . 
normally a film will be very dark in order to scare a viewer ; aliens uses lights to scare the viewer . 
then , of course , is the cinematography , which uses point of view shots , along with video feeds in order to build suspense . 
some of the scariest scenes involve the perspective of ripley . 
surprisingly , the acting is not only above average for this genre , but some of the best . 
sigourney weaver received an oscar nomination for her portrayal of ripley , incorporating the right amount of sympathy into her hard-edged persona . 
weaver soars above the rest in this film , but she is supposed to . 
carrie henn gives an above average performance for a child , developing a three-dimensional character from her quiet attitude . 
lance henriksen is terrific as bishop , showing that androids don't always have to be flat characters . 
jenette goldstein shows a fair amount of enthusiasm with her role , and steals several scenes of her own ( though her personality becomes slightly annoying when she isn't fighting ) . 
michael biehn gives a very nice performance in the most obligatory role of the film . 
however , biehn does a good job , making it seem original again . 
paul reiser may seem like an odd choice to play the sleazy corporate director , but reiser manages to pull it off quite well ( however , i still see him as paul on tv's " mad about you " ) . 
a very good cast ( which also includes bill paxton and william hope ) highlights this action film , making it stand out from others . 
aliens is rightfully rated r for violence , gore , language , and terror . 
aliens is sort of the redefining moment of the science fiction genre , as alien was more of a suspense/horror film . 
aliens pumps up the stakes , and cameron directs it with professional quality . 
cameron certainly knows how to make a good action film , but here he proves how he can create some truly horrific moments on screen . 
technically astonishing , aliens' only flaw is small characters who are only there to get killed . 
aside from this , you probably won't experience anything like aliens for quite a while . 
ingredients : neophyte lawyer , legal situations , corrupt insurance company , 
synopsis : rudy baylor ( matt damon ) is an ethical kid fresh out of law school who must juggle three legal situations at the same time . 
rudy's girlfriend is attacked by her violent husband ; rudy's elderly landlady wants to arrange her will so that her children are excluded , and ; the family of rudy's friend with leukemia is suing the corrupt insurance company that wouldn't pay for a bone marrow transplant . 
rudy is new to being a lawyer and is thoroughly outgunned , but luckily he is aided by a sleazy ambulance chaser ( danny devito ) who has failed the bar exam six times as well as by the kindly presiding judge ( danny glover ) . 
jon voight plays leo f . drummond , the intimidating and arrogant leader of the all-powerful insurance company's team of lawyers who will do anything to oppose justice . 
will rudy defeat leo ? 
will he enjoy being a lawyer ? 
opinion : the good news is that this movie has a happy ending , and it features a guy trying to do the right thing . 
director francis ford coppola does this film a little differently than the stereotypical law movie . 
in the typical lawyer movie there's one big case and the movie focuses on solving it , and somewhere along the line surprise witnesses and motives turn up before the good guy wins ( after lots of gripping courtroom drama ) . 
however , coppola's movie is deliberately more low key . 
'the rainmaker' plays out like a personality sketch of young rudy as he gets emotionally involved with and tries to save various little quirky side characters . 
in the background rudy's voice narrates his feelings and makes half-cynical jokes about the legal profession in general . 
two factors combine to make this movie less heavy than it can be . 
first , rudy's time is split juggling three cases , rather than concentrating on a single high-stakes case . 
also , rudy's use of voice narration in place of acting makes the film lose some of its dramatic edge . 
the end result is an entertaining low key law movie where the good guys win , and rudy narrates his way into coming of age . 
in one of my many videos i have attained from the local library , casablanca was my third classic in some weeks . 
the others being citizen kane and vertigo ( yes , i am trying to see as many of afi's greatest movies ever made as i can ) . 
but , casablanca stood out from the rest for me : it was actually watchable . 
what most hail as the greatest american film ever , casablanca isn't so much a love story as a political frenzy with a love triangle thrown in . 
it seems that star humphry bogart spend about 85 percent of the movie with various leaders of the nation instead of with ingred bergman . 
that annoyed me , as did the ending . 
why didn't the plan turn around ? ! ? 
surprisingly , i enjoyed the film . 
i liked bogart's character and his acting ( not over the top as most actors in his era ) . 
i once read about if you had a choice to be in a movie , which one would it be , and a women said casablanca . 
at first i was thinking to myself " why ? " 
then , as i watched the film again , i understood why . 
the movie is very well done and the script top-notch , although i doubt i understood more than half of the political mumbo jumbo . 
casablanca is , in my mind , no classic ( like solaris ) , but it is a good film and stylishly shot . 
hey , hollywood , how about this : a remake with harrison ford and anne heche ? 
now that would be a classic . 
capsule : suprisingly more of a comedy than a straight action flick , which isn't necessarily a bad thing . 
not exactly oscar caliber , but one helluva bullet-riddled good time . 
extended review : you know , i remember when hitmen were evil , murderous scum . 
alas , the times are a-changin' . 
in a recent string of movies , hitmen are suddenly wise- cracking , fun-loving killers-with-hearts . 
this brings us to hong kong director kirk wong's first american feature , the big hit . 
oddly enough , about the same time last year a similar film , grosse point blank , was released . 
advertised as a quirky comedy with hints of action , it turned out to have a suprising dosage of it . 
the big hit is quite the opposite . 
it was hyped as " the new film from producer john woo " , so one would it expect lots of stylized killing and action . 
however , there's a sore lack of it , which is about the only thing wrong with the big hit . 
the film starts out with mel smiley and his cohorts doing a job on a white slaver . 
mel , played by mark wahlberg in a dopey , milquetoast role , is a killing machine ; he flips , spins , even breakdances whilst popping caps . 
sadly , he doesn't get a chance to do much of it . 
except for the beginning set piece and the last 20 twenty minutes or so , the film is in comedy mode . 
the action , at least what there is of it , is prime cut stuff . 
wong , after numerous hong kong features , makes quite a nice u . s . debut . 
however , his pacing is a bit off , with the action sequences only bookending the movie and not lasting long enough . 
they start off electrifying and fresh , but just kinda stop . 
normally , this would hamper a movie to the point of being unenjoyable . 
luckily , we have ben ramsey's screenplay , a bitingly funny piece of work . 
the only problem is there might be too much humor , one joke makes you laugh so hard you miss the next few . 
some of best gags include an oriental film maker down on his luck and one of mel's hitmen pals that has just discovered onanism . 
the only problem is how some of the minor characters are handled , some being there only for a laugh , which sometimes works , sometimes doesn't . 
overall , the big hit may have it's flaws , but it makes up for them in a stylishly directed , gut-wrenchingly funny joyride . 
definately one of the better ways to spend two hours . 
 " when will the devil take me ? " he asks rhetorically in lulling voice over . 
the spoiled title character of _onegin_ ( pronounced oh-negg-in ) is waiting on death to relieve him after a lifetime of rapacious behaviour . 
martha fiennes' debut feature is ( quite literally ) filmed poetry ( it's based on an epic russian poem by alexander pushkin ) , a profound study of regret , of how we confuse shame with guilt . 
when we first meet eugene onegin ( ralph , acting for his sister ; another brother , magnus , composed the score ) , a philandering aristocrat from st . petersburg , he has just inherited his uncle's estate . 
with plans to sell it , onegin pays a summer visit to the manor , which is located in an underpopulated russian countryside , and not long into the trip he meets a neighbouring family of blue bloods . 
smitten with olga larina ( headey ) , he befriends olga's fianc ? , vladimir lensky ( stephens ) , while olga's sister , tatyana ( tyler ) , romanticizing his flippant attitude ( he's a nineteenth bad boy ) , falls for onegin . 
in one sweaty , inky torrent of passion , tatyana writes him a love letter . 
he is at least intrigued by the note but rejects her affections , it is implied , because he can . 
soon after , tragedy strikes , and onegin makes himself scarce . 
when we catch up with him , six years later , he has just returned to st . petersburg , where at a grand ball he discovers that an old friend ( donovan ) has married a more womanly and wordly tatyana . 
this time , onegin finds her irresistable . 
what is most amazing about ralph fiennes' performance is his subtle physical transformation from dashing snob to miserly grouch . 
overwhelmed by a top hat , the onegin who pines for tatyana seems smaller in stature than the one who brushed her off , an ebeneezer scrooge trapped in christmas past . 
the actor has been constricted playing heroes for too long now-there's room to breathe in a role that's made up of shades of gray like " onegin " . 
petula clark sang of a universal phenomenon in " parking lot " : " you don't know what you've got ? til it's gone . " 
onegin's about-face on tatyana speaks for those of us ( read : most of us ) who need confirmation that someone or something is wanted by others before we want it as well . 
what the character feels is not jealousy but remorse , embarrassment , even , at having let her go . 
out of identification we feel empathy for onegin , a callous bastard . 
tatyana's emotions echo a thousand ditties , but that makes them no less vital . 
she changes , too , from a girl in crush to a woman with divided loyalties . 
tyler acquits herself surprisingly well among her uk co-stars , filling in sketchy gaps by expressing base sentiments in a series of wanton stares . 
they both have faces , mr . fiennes and ms . tyler , capable of conveying archetypal russian misery . 
_onegin_ could have added up to little more than a distinguished episode of " masterpiece theater " , even with its current cast of thoroughbreds intact , were martha fiennes not at the helm . 
an mtv background ( she cut her teeth directing rock videos for xtc and others ) has positively influenced her sense of pace ( though , thankfully , not her shot lengths-no spasmodic cutting here ) ; at just over 100 minutes , _onegin_ clicks along like a brisk walk through valleys of despair . 
the film has an atypical period look , as well . 
absent are the sumptuous tableware and antique furnishings that stand in for plot and character in those drippy merchant ivory productions . 
the sets are almost expressionistically bare , echoing the loneliness of the protagonists . 
 ( cinematographer remi adafarasin often allows space to engulf them ; i'm reminded the climax , which unfolds in a sea of white . ) 
martha fiennes has a clear command of cinema , and her spare , often painfully human visual presentation of " yevgeny onegin " is arguably the most lucid translation of pushkin's difficult text yet . 
ms . fiennes may be the most exciting female presence behind a camera since jane campion . 
bruce barth's mellow piano plays in the background as conflict erupts in a little country town of florida . 
ulee's gold feels like another fonda creation- on golden pond : it has a soft , calm surface with a tempest brewing underneath , the cinematography creates a place of gold , yellow , and olive colors , the music is stirring and tranquil . 
both deal with the hardships of family life . 
peter fonda gives his undoubtedly best performance in victor nu ? ez's new film and patricia richardson ( home improvement star ) shows she is worthy of big screen attention . 
nu ? ez is probably independent film's greatest asset , along with john sayles , and he proves his talent with a slow pace and undulating , heavy tension . 
peter fonda's performance borrows from his father henry fonda's in on golden pond- there is a great vulnerability that he gives the character ulee jackson and just like his father , peter fonda is quiet , emotional , and weary in this exceptional role . 
ulee jackson , the film's protagonist , is struggling . 
pressure is mounting at the wrong time . 
he is a beekeeper and this is his " busy " season . 
he has to deal with his two granddaughters' needs and erupting hormones , he is forced to pick up his daughter-in-law in orlando who is strung out on drugs and take care of her , and he is faced with a challenging task : unsettled business his son , who is now in prison , has left behind . 
he finds his daughter-in-law , helen , with the two men his son robbed a bank with . 
she has apparently told these two men that the money that resulted from the robbery is with her husband . 
that is why he got caught- the police found him with the money . 
now the two men are demanding they get the cash , or they will come after ulee's two granddaughters . 
ulee promises he will bring it to them and takes a deranged helen back to his serene little home where her two children that she abandoned scrutinize her with contempt . 
ulee is a man who lost his pals in war- he was the only man in his platoon to survive . 
he refuses help from anybody and does not respond to affectionate gestures . 
he is a bitter , closed-off man whose only passion is his beekeeping , his granddaughters , and his dead wife . 
connie , his next door neighbor , finally gets through to him with friendly favors . 
she is a nurse and helps helen get through her turmoil with drugs . 
ulee's gold is the story of a man who believes he is fine as he is- until the truth is revealed painfully to him : he is cold and unfeeling . 
of course , in the end , ulee softens up , but his journey is absorbing and we have fallen in love with his tiredness and weariness . 
what is admirable about the movie is peter fonda's winning turn as ulee and the story that feels like nobody's fool but , in the end , ends up in a class of its own . 
susan granger's review of " big eden " ( jour de fete ) 
it's utopia , this tiny town tucked away in the timberland of northwestern montana , where old codgers lounge on the porch of the general store to pass the time away and the local matchmakers ( nan martin , louise fletcher ) eagerly pair off the young people , regardless of sexual preference . 
there's nary a homophobe or bigot around , much to the surprise of henry hart ( arye gross ) , a successful but lonely manhattan artist who returns home to care for sam ( george coe ) , the ailing grandfather who raised him . 
and with the simultaneous re-appearance of his best-friend from high-school and object of his unrequited love ( tim dekay ) , now divorced with two young sons , the fact of his homosexuality must be faced . 
to complete the triangle , there's the tall , taciturn native american ( eric schweig ) who owns the general store and lovingly yet secretly prepares gourmet meals for henry and sam . 
this fable about home and family is a major debut for first-time film-maker thomas bezucha ( a former designer for coach and polo/ralph lauren ) who is meticulous about minding details , using ballads like " welcome to my world " and " achin' , breakin' heart " to set up the concept of our universal longing to find a place in which we can love and be loved . 
in the paradise of big eden , what you are doesn't matter as much as generosity of spirit , respect and kindness . 
sure , the plot's implausible but it's a good-natured fantasy so allowances should be made . 
and rob sweeney's photography of glacier national park is spectacular ! 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " big eden " is a charming , quirky , off-beat 7 . 
it's a heart-warming romantic comedy about a gay man who doesn't die of aids or wind up alone at the end . 
when you go to the movies as much as i do , you unfortunately end up seeing certain movie trailers one too many times . 
such was the case with frequency . 
every time i went to a screening , there was the frequency preview . 
it looked awful . 
it looked cheesy , sappy and ridiculous . 
it looked like a flop . 
well , whoever put that trailer together should be fired , because in terms of pure entertainment , frequency is one of the best of the year thus far . 
frequency boasts a compelling story line . 
an occurrence of freakish solar activity allows police detective john sullivan ( james caviezel ) to speak to his fireman father frank sullivan ( dennis quaid ) through a ham radio , despite the fact that frank has been dead for 30 years . 
john is able to give his father information that prevents his death in a warehouse fire , but by doing so causes other changes . 
somehow , a serial killer's reign of terror , which in the original timeline had been stopped at three murders , extends to ten victims . . . 
including john's mother . 
this is director gregory hoblit's third film ( the other two being primal fear and fallen ) . 
with all three , he's managed to attach himself to great scripts ( this one by toby emmerich , whose only previous movie experience was as a music supervisor on numerous new line films ) and add equally great direction . 
also , he apparently likes to have his films wrap up with a kick-ass ending . 
frequency is no exception , the ending is unpredictable and incredibly satisfying . 
hoblit is three for three , and i hope he can keep it up . 
now everyone can argue logic this and logic that all you want with the sci-fi elements of frequency . 
but the fact of the matter is that time travel has never been achieved . 
who's to say how something works and how it doesn't when it's never happened ? 
is it because we've become accustomed to time travel " laws " from other places like " star trek " and the back to the future trilogy and " quantum leap " ? 
yes , if you sit down and think about it , certain plot elements in this film probably won't make any sense . 
most films are like that . 
don't let that dissuade you from seeing this fantastically entertaining film however . 
when frequency was over , it made me wish i had seen it with my father so i could have given him a hug ( okay okay , shut up ) . 
when you break it down past all its sci-fi elements and serial killer antics , frequency is simply a movie about a father and his son and the bond that they share . 
it's touching , it's sincere , and it's what ultimately makes this movie work . 
[pg-13] 
it must be tough to be a mob boss . 
just ask paul vitti ( robert deniro ) , a man who finds his job as mafia head to be rather stress inducing . 
i can believe it , too - one can't even begin to fathom the turmoil he must go through when he's forced to choose between an ice pick , baseball bat or sledgehammer to torture victims with . 
suffering from reoccurring panic attacks , paul decides he needs to consult some professional help . 
and who better than billy crystal . 
after appearing in bottom-of-the-barrel flops , father's day and my giant , crystal finally finds a reliable costar and some very promising material here . 
playing vitti's private shrink , the two very different stars strike an unorthodox , but interesting relationship that carries this enjoyable comedy on a steady wave of laughs from start to finish . 
casting robert deniro as paul vitti is something of an in-joke , i think . 
placed in this mobster's shoes , deniro gets to spoof characters he himself played in films like the godfather , part ii and casino . 
it's obvious he's having a lot of fun doing so . 
the man behind the camera is harold ramis , whose credits include ghostbusters ( as writer and star ) , and his best directing effort , the bill murray vehicle , groundhog day . 
ramis has a knack for drawing laughs because he simply knows what's funny , and here he manages to accentuate the strengths of nearly all the actors . 
the only character who weakens the payoff is crystal's bride-to-be ( lisa kudrow ) . 
playing the same dumbed-down role as she does in friends , kudrow is amusing , but doesn't fit into this comedy mold as well as the director may have hoped . 
the supporting cast sparkles . 
joe viterelli is hilarious as jelly , vitti's pea brained right-hand man , and chazz palminteri is a show stopper playing a fellow mobster who's in desperate need of the definition of `closure' . 
the movie manages to maintain consistent chuckles throughout , putting the emphasis on 3 or 4 really big laughs that will have audiences grasping their sides . 
the situation is just too cute to resist . 
it's unfortunate that the language gets somewhat out of hand . 
but hey , if you're in the mafia , using obscenities probably comes naturally . 
and near the end , seeing billy crystal attempt to walk and talk like a mob boss is truly a special treat . 
the caveman's valentine starring samuel l . jackson , ann magnuson , aunjanue ellis , tamara tunie screenplay by george dawes green , based on his novel directed by kasi lemmons 
 * * * for more film , dvd and books about movie reviews , plus annual coverage of the toronto international film festival , visit _film freak central_ - http : //filmfreakcentral . net 
| now with search engine * * * 
a strange mixture of _shine_ , _basquiat_ , _angel heart_ , and grant morrison & dave mckean's graphic novel " arkham asylum " , _the caveman's valentine_ is a feverish tale of a homeless madman-cum-detective who , on the morning of february 14th , discovers a " valentine " just outside his new york cave : one of ella fitzgerald's strange fruit , stuck in the crotch of a tree--a young male model murdered and frozen to a branch . 
believing at first that his imagined nemesis stuyvesant , shooting evil rays into his mind from atop the chrysler building , is responsible for the murder , romulus ( samuel l . jackson ) is put on the trail of an avant-garde photographer in the mapplethorpe mould , david leppenraub ( colm feore ) . 
his minor sleuthing interrupted by the occasional delusional fit and bouts with an ecstasy of creation ( romulus was a brilliant julliard-trained pianist prior to his psychosis ) , romulus uncovers clues and harasses suspects on his way to convincing his police-woman daughter ( aunjanue ellis ) that even though he's a nut , that doesn't mean that he can't solve a high-profile society murder . 
every moment an exhausting workshop of ideas , and every character the same , _the caveman's valentine_ is a concept so " high concept " that it suddenly became clear to me that the film fits into the comic book genre of entertainment , with romulus's " caveman " a slightly more mundane version of todd mcfarlane's urban noir hero , spawn . 
with a long-vanished wife ( tamara tunie ) acting as a spiritual guide , the occasional social caste commentary , the secret base in a cave , a divergent genius personality with a network of informants and supporters , and a wickedly colourful arch-enemy , the film piles on the lurid comic book details and dizzying slapdash colours to such a lavish extent that i was vaguely surprised that the blue police cars weren't inscribed with " gotham pd . " 
that being said , _the caveman's valentine_ can only really succeed as a heroic fantasy , a frank miller graphic novel that has the audacity to portray the blood staining a field of virgin snow expanding to form the shape of a heart . 
the difficulties with the film spring from the misunderstanding that it somehow adheres to the conventions of a thriller or a police procedural when , in fact , _the caveman's valentine_ is a superhero fable that takes on the cause of the homeless ( again like mcfarlane's spawn ) while attacking the entrenched ruling classes in government and the arts . 
it is no small detail that our hero , romulus , is not only named for a member of the ruling class who lived his life ( in legend ) without knowledge of his royal birth , but also that our romulus has turned his back on the comforts of the literati in favour of a mystical existence living in a cave in a park . in the romulus mythology , signs of romulus' royal blood is brought by twelve vultures , while in the film , the call to action for our hero comes in the form of not the carrion birds , but of the carrion itself . 
whether or not romulus of _the caveman's valentine_ will found a nation , or , in the case of novelist george dawes green , upon whose novel his own screenplay is based , a franchise , the fact remains that _the caveman's valentine_ is easily the most misunderstood film of 2001 thus far . 
it , along with m . night shyamalan's _unbreakable_ , is a mature cinematic extrapolation of the graphic novel format which has , since miller's seminal " the dark knight returns " , redefined the comic medium as one suitable for mature ruminations on psychologically sticky topics . 
readers of sam keith's brilliant " the maxx " comic series ( or of mtv's short-lived animated adaptation of the same ) are already familiar with the idea of a homeless man placed in the position of knight errant and king of his own twisted demesne . 
the failure of both " the maxx " tv show and of _the caveman's valentine_ ( not forgetting the initial backlash against _unbreakable_ ) suggests that the public may not be ready for america's surprising contributions to dark fantasy . 
luxuriantly lit , brashly saturated , and comic-panel framed with a virtuoso grace by cinematographer amy vincent ( _death in venice , ca_ ) , while inhabiting robin standefer's ( _practical magic_ ) mesmerizing sets , _the caveman's valentine_ is an unremittingly gorgeous film . 
kasi lemmons , following up her brilliant 1997 debut , _eve's bayou_ , which played on similar themes of manufactured realities and mysticism , fulfills much of her immense promise with a tale of seraphs and lost boys , artists and suffering . 
_the caveman's valentine_ is an elegant and piquant expression of hope for justice in a tilted landscape . 
clearly not for every taste , when approached with the correct paradigm , it is one of the most stunning and intensely fascinating films of the year : a redefinition of the hero archetype for a post-modern audience with urine-stained wool trench coats in place of blue tights and red capes . 
_the caveman's valentine_ is a fine and a courageous film , crazy enough to suggest that the delirious yammering of an idiot savant is the best and truest paladin of order in the chaos of eliot's rat's alley wasteland . 
expand the final fifteen minutes of home alone into a feature-length film and you've got baby's day out--an agreeably amusing children's comedy about a bumbling band of kid kidnappers who are unwittingly outwitted by an innocent infant . 
the plot tracks a trio of crooks-posed-as-photographers ( mantegna , pantoliano , haley ) who steal nine-month-old bennington august cottwell iv , aka baby bink , from his old-money home . 
but the plan goes awry when baby crawls out an open window and into the streets of downtown chicago ! 
following the path of his favorite story , called " baby's day out , " baby rides a bus and visits the zoo and winds up at a skyscraper construction site . 
while baby stays unscathed , the crooks fare worse for the wear . 
the stooges get hit by boards and dropped from roofs and , of course , suffer multiple crotch injuries . 
 ( john wayne bobbitt should probably steer clear of this one . ) 
like he did in planes , trains , and automobiles , john hughes again demonstrates his mastery of the simple set-up and extended execution . 
here , he's aided and abetted by a director , patrick read johnson , whose choreography could rival a coen brother . 
best bit : baby crawling across a busy city street . 
baby's day out has only two emotions--awww and ouch--and the actors play them accordingly . 
forget the cartoon concern of lara flynn boyle or cynthia nixon , disposable as mom and nanny , respectively , the ones to watch are the ones who are wincing . 
joe mantegna is a great head stooge , barking lines like " that little doo-doo machine is my retirement money . " 
brian haley has a great scene with a gorilla , while joe pantolianto plays curly to mantegna's moe . 
 * he * is funny . 
needless to say , twins adam and jacob warton are adorable beyond belief . 
waiting at the train station near the beginning of fury , joe says : `after all , we're human . ' 
in the context of events to transpire , joe's line is prophetic , foreshadowing the internal conflict of the protagonist in the latter half of the film . 
does being human necessarily imply humane behavior ? 
through the baseness of human character exemplified in the formation of a mob , fritz lang prompts the viewer to consider whether our inclination towards impulsiveness supersedes our civility . 
expressing his abhorrence towards the rise of nazism in his homeland , lang takes great care in creating a sense of discomfort during the scenes of mob hysteria . 
in the scene prefacing the lynching , the mob achieves critical mass at the bar . 
deputy meyers is brought in as an exalted informant , but when he is unable to augment the mob's myth of joe , he is quickly renounced from his position as town gossip . 
we see in a shot where two bar patrons are arguing that the deputy looks around nervously at the growing monster and then carefully slips out of the bar . 
what is quietly horrifying is the realization by both the audience and the deputy that the crowd no longer exists within the confines of reason and has succumbed to what the barber referred to as impulse . 
what once was excitement to the deputy has turned into fear with the realization that he is now powerless . 
to the audience , the deputy's quiet exit concurs with their own sinking feeling of uneasiness as the mob's delirium crescendos . 
lang educes this discomfort not through movement of the camera , but rather its stillness . 
the shot's composition places the audience equidistant and directly across from the pair of arguing patrons and the deputy effectively becomes a mirror to our own apprehensions . 
as the intensity of the mob closes around deputy meyers , it does so around the viewer as well . 
the stationary camera in this shot heightens our fears because when the deputy escapes , we are deserted by our reflection and the viewer becomes the sole proprietor of sensibility amongst a swarm of irrationality . 
because the camera does not track the deputy's movement , we are left with an amplified perception of desertion and vulnerability . 
as the bar scene progresses , the camera pans 180 degrees to reveal the fury of the mob . 
this shot is unique because it is a point-of-view shot where the audience , not a character in the film is the subject . 
while a long , or dolly shot may objectively reveal the size of the mob , panning from the mob's belly distorts the audience's spatial reference and exaggerates the claustrophobia of the scene ; we feel we are at the epicenter of something infinitely large . 
we see close shots of people's faces , contorted by their rage . 
with the pivot of the pan being in the center of the mob and angry members within a short radius of the pan , lang offers the viewer a sense of what it feels like to be the subject of a lynching . 
in this shot the audience is at the mercy of the mob ; lang's camera makes us feel vulnerable and powerless as joe must have felt in the jail . 
in some greater sense , it must have been what lang felt when he saw his countrymen overcome with unjustifiable hatred towards their own humankind . 
lang's observations of his fellow man succumbing to mob behavior left him with an indelible image of malevolent human behavior . 
as joe faces his peril , trapped in his burning cell , his dog rainbow rushes to be by his side . 
lang makes rainbow a martyr to contrast his humanity against the recklessness of his human counterparts . 
using his camera to create shots that elicit disturbing images of mob mentality , lang depicts man's volatility and `impulse' towards inconceivable cruelty . 
reprising joe' s line at the train station , we are induced to question why our primeval impulses so easily transcend our humanity . 
because the press screening of " planet of the apes " was one day past last issue's deadline , i was afforded the opportunity to see the film a second time , listen to audience reactions and read a heap of reviews before writing this piece . 
the chief complaints of those who disliked the futuristic adventure appear to be that the movie focused on visuals instead of substance , that the story was thin , that mark wahlberg's character was colorless and that the surprise ending sucked . 
to those people i would like to say ? what the hell did you expect ? 
this is a tim burton movie , boys and girls . 
tim burton movies have great art direction and thin , clunky stories . 
for the blissfully nasty , disjointed and underrated " mars attacks ! " 
 ( jonathan rosenbaum of the chicago reader and i were two of the only critics in america to praise the movie ) burton reportedly tossed vintage " mars attacks ! " 
trading cards onto the floor and based his story on the ones that landed face up . 
burton's re-imagining of the 1968 story of an astronaut that lands on a planet where apes rule men looks great . 
the apes , courtesy of make-up magician rick baker , are dazzling and ape city is a wonder to behold . 
like astronaut leo davidson ( wahlberg ) , the film hits the ground running , whisking viewers through a head-spinning series of solid one-liners and engaging vignettes and establishing a sense of thrust that carries us through the more traditional fight scenes that come later . 
as for wahlberg , consider what burton does with his character . 
from his start as a filmmaker , burton has shown his fascination with colorful misfits ( pee-wee herman , the joker , ed wood , the ack-acking martians , etc . ) and lack of interest in standard issue heroes . 
so leo davidson spends most of the movie getting the living shit kicked out of him before the biggest guilt trip in history is dropped on his shoulders . 
as for lack of color , remember , leo only launches into space to get his monkey back . 
he doesn't want to lead humanity and he isn't looking for romance from a pretty , but dull human ( estella warren ) or a dynamic ape ( helena bonham carter , terrific as an equal-rights activist ) . 
as a man who just wants out , wahlberg is focused , subtle and sly . 
the surprise ending provides the requisite shock ( and some more dandy visuals , particularly of the approaching authority figures ) , but admittedly isn't nearly as satisfying as the one in the original . 
for the original ending to work , we only had to make one simple connection , for this one , we have to write a whole new screenplay . 
the 1968 " apes " boasted a handful of great scenes , cool looking monkeys , a deliciously hammy performance by charlton heston ( who appears uncredited here as an aged chimp on his deathbed , re-delivering a classic line ) and a killer ending . 
but viewers had to suffer through numerous dull stretches punctuated by social and political messages delivered with the grace of a wrecking ball . 
the 2001 " planet of the apes " offers a different set of great scenes , much cooler looking monkeys , fine acting from wahlberg , bonham carter , paul giamatti and tim roth , and a not so good ending . 
it also gives us another chance to experience the skewed vision of tim burton and that's nothing to complain about . 
in 1977 , something never though possible happened . 
the film star wars was released , with extraordinary , never seen before techniques of special effects . 
the film set a new standard for special effects in film . 
not only did it set a standard for the special effects , it set a standard for film itself . 
the plot is one of the most creative i heard ever . 
the legend of star wars starts long ago with the jedi . 
the jedi were warriors who were wiped out by the dark side . 
darth vader is the leader of the dark side . 
ben obi-wan kenobi , played by sir alec guinness , was one of those jedi who is still alive today . 
darth vader was once a jedi , until he turned to the dark side . 
years after the killing of the jedi , darth vader is still around causing trouble . 
r2-d2 and c-3p0 are both what we call " driods " , or robots that are of assistance to humans . 
while an attack on the ship that princess leia , played by carrie fisher , is aboard , she inserts a message to r2-d2 , who is also on the ship . 
to obi-wan kenobi pleading for help . 
the princess is captured by vader , but r2-d2 and c-3p0 get away on an escape pod that eventually lands them on the remote planet of tatooine . 
the jawas , or small creatures who sell droids , pick r2-d2 and c-3p0 up to sell . 
they are bought by luke skywalker's ( mark hamill ) family . 
while luke is cleaning the droids , the message from princess leia is found . 
luke finds this obi-wan kenobi , and learns that obi-wan was a friend of luke's father , who is now dead . 
luke also learns his family was a jedi . 
after luke's family is killed by tropps from the dark side , ben decides to put luke through training to stop the dark side and destroy them once and for all . 
ben wants to create a new jedi . 
first , the two must find princess leia and serve her . 
han solo , played by harrison ford , and his sidekick chewbacca , played by peter mayhew , are consulted about providing a ship to complete the tasks necessary . 
after meeting up with leia , the film really picks up . 
luke continues his training as a pilot and to become a jedi , ben kenobi confronts darth vader , and many other interesting events occur . 
star wars is an amazing epic . 
the plot is so original and amazing , i cannot believe it . 
the special effects , especially for its time , are wonderful and realistic . 
the space scenes in particular are the most fun to watch . 
the ships flown by all are very unique and creative . 
the costumes are also out of this world . 
the scenery is so different from anything i have ever seen before . 
there are a variety of different very memorable set pieces that will stay with me forever . 
the entire premise of star wars is amazing . 
the creatures and droids that we see throughout the film are one of a kind . 
even the human characters are different . 
every character is extremely likable and different from characters from other sci fi films . 
the acting on everyone's part is great , especially that of sir alec guinness's . 
even though the concept is not realistic at all , it is pulled off very nicely . 
the acting , setting , effects , costumes , and sound make it work . 
if any of these were messed up , star wars would have come off as one huge joke . 
the ending works very well , and left it very open to the sequels that came afterward . 
in early 1997 , a special edition of star wars was released . 
the film was re-mastered so it looked better than it did in 1977 . 
a few creatures were added here and there , and even an entire deleted scene with han solo and jabba the hutt ( seen in return of the jedi ) was added to the film . 
think that's enough ? 
on may 19 , 1999 , star wars episode i : the phantom menace will be released , followed by two more films that will reveal what went on before a new hope . 
with this , star wars is bound to become the greatest tale told in our time . 
if you want some hearty laughs , then rat race is the movie for you . 
this unpretentious little comedy , which sneaks into theaters today with very little hype , will have you bouncing in your theater seat . 
and while the film fits neatly into the low-brow , slapstick school of comedy , one refreshing aspect is its lack of mean-spiritedness . 
the plot follows a group of people chosen at random by an eccentric las vegas casino owner ( john cleese ) who must race from vegas to a bus station locker 700 miles away in silver city , n . m . 
inside the locker is a duffel bag containing $2 million . 
the first one to open the locker , gets the bag and the money . 
what the group of participants doesn't know is that cleese's donald sinclair ( " i can do anything i want - i'm eccentric ! " ) is staging the race as a betting game for a group of high rollers at the hotel . 
the participants include vera ( whoopi goldberg ) and merrill ( lanai chapman ) , a newly reunited mother and daughter ; disgraced pro football referee owen templeton ( cuba gooding jr . ) ; italian tourist mr . pollini ( rowan atkinson ) ; randy pear ( jon lovitz ) and his family ; the bumbling con men duane and blaine cody ( seth green and vince vieluf ) ; and cynical young lawyer nick shaffer ( breckin meyer ) . 
various amusing encounters and mishaps befall the participants en route to silver city . 
screenwriter andy breckman adds a nice touch by not having the racers try to sabotage one another . 
the most side-splitting situations involve vera and merrill's encounter with the squirrel lady , a nice nutsy cameo by kathy bates ; owen's commandeering a charter bus full of lucille ball look-alikes on their way to a lucy convention ; the cody brothers misadventures with a hot-air balloon , a flying cow and a monster truck ; and the pear family's stopover at a barbie museum , which turns out not to be what they think it is . 
the pear family situation is a fine example of the way breckman's script builds the laughs . 
without going into detail , this bit segues from the museum to hitler's touring car , to eva braun's dark lipstick , to lovitz burning his tongue , culminating at a ceremony honoring world war ii veterans . 
rat race's cast is first rate . 
cleese is wonderfully devilish and madcap ; lovitz is , at first , a bit whiny , but his character grows on you ; gooding is having a fine romp ; and dave thomas almost steals the show as cleese's deadpan assistant , a man " born without a personality . " 
the film is directed by jerry zucker , who knows something about comedy . 
along with his brother , david , and friend jim abrahams , he was responsible for such hits as airplane ! 
and ruthless people . 
a throwaway subplot , which is good for some laughs , features cleese and his buddies , betting on a series of outlandish situations , including one dealing with a hooker and pepto-bismol . 
this is a fun little feature . 
the only letdown comes at the finale , which is too touchy-feely and sweet , almost negating what came before it . 
rat race is a summer sleeper , but it will keep you awake , as will the laughter of those watching around you . 
i had a chance to see a sneak preview of city slickers ii on campus last night . 
i went in with the expectation of a film with the similar flavor which made the original such a success : personal growth and insightful humor about life . 
i came away somewhat disappointed in this regard , getting some of the latter and not much of the former . 
the basic plot revolves around billy crystal , who plays mitch robbins , turning forty . 
he's now become the station manager of the radio station in which he worked in the original . 
he's given a job at the radio station to his best friend , played by daniel stern , out of sympathy while stern's character works through his divorce . 
his loser younger brother ( john lovitz ) comes to mitch's house to bum a money and place to live , all while mitch and his wife try to celebrate his birthday . 
during the celebration , mitch discovers what appears to be a treasure map in curly's ( the cattle drive leader in the original played by jack palance ) old hat . 
after a business trip to las vegas , crystal , stern , and lovitz stay a few extra days to go off in search of the treasure . 
on the way , they run into curly's twin brother , duke , played by ( you know who ) jack palance . 
first of all , the cinematography was beautifully done , especially the outdoor scenes in the desert . 
the scenes are such that i would like to see some of those sights filmed myself . 
there is some character development during the film . 
the actors remain true to their characters and play them well , without overplaying the jokes . 
the movie is a good basic adventure , with enough plot twists to provide for an ending that is difficult to predict . 
the movie is paced well , but with a couple slow spots in the middle and towards the end . 
humor-wise , the film has a good number of jokes which maintained my interest throughout the film . 
there are memorable moments like when stern is bitten by a snake , but there are fewer jokes to laugh at in the sequel ( surprise , surprise for a sequel , right ? ) . 
however , the slight bitter aftertaste i have with this film has to do mainly with the film's manipulation of the audience . 
the film tries to pull your heart-strings too much regarding how close the characters are to each other , like when mitch had decided to suck the snake marrow out of his best friend's butt . 
this is done again when the gang meets up with some members of the cattle drive group from the original . 
there were also some parts which appeared unrealistic , like whether the stampede would start in the way it did or why they didn't worry more about water while tromping around the desert . 
some strenuous stretches of the imagination are required here . 
since the objective of the gang is to find gold and get rich ( unlike finding themselves in middle age like in the original ) , i also found it harder to empathize with the characters during their journey . 
overall , i'd say that the film is an entertaining and humorous adventure with some story-line deficiencies making it less worthy than the original . 
it may be worth the full price of admission , but a matinee would be a better bargain . 
the " submarine " genre of movies seems to be one of the most intriguing and compelling types of storytelling there is . 
think about it . . . 
these films are completely based in reality , yet only a handful of people have ever been on one , making them fascinating to the general public . 
they aren't like movies that take place on a plane or a train , as anybody can get on one of those . 
and they aren't like movies that happen in outer space either , because no one's done any of that stuff yet . 
when a new one comes out , you don't hear anyone say " ugh , another submarine movie " like people tend to say " ugh , another boxing movie " . 
look at modern movies that involve submarines : das boot , the abyss , the hunt for red october , crimson tide . . . 
all are well regarded as top-notch entertainment . 
gladly joining that bunch is u-571 , which stars matthew mcconaughey as the executive officer of a u . s . naval submarine during world war ii . 
we learn he has been denied a recommendation for his own command by his superior ( bill paxton ) . 
mcconaughey's crew then receives orders that they will be boarding a disabled german submarine to steal the enigma , a german communications encoding device that has stumped allied intelligence . 
the mission goes horribly wrong however , and as a result , mcconaughey and only a handful of his crew ( as well as a captured german ) become trapped aboard the u-571 in enemy waters . 
the first great thing about u-571 is the film's opening sequence . 
the german crew of u-571 are under attack , which sets the events of the rest of the film into motion . 
it's tense , exciting and fascinating . 
and i applaud the filmmakers for not copping out and instead keeping the entire sequence in german with english subtitles . 
most movies with a scene this long would have panicked and had the german crew speaking english right away . 
once the plot gets moving , u-571 gives us action sequence after action sequence , making the audience wonder " ok , now how do they get out of this ? " . 
the stakes keep raising ( much like in executive decision , an excellent action-thriller ) , and even though the audience knows how the film will end , it's a lot of fun getting there . 
i only have two minor complaints about the entire film . 
the first comes from the scenes which follow the opening sequence . 
while their purpose is to introduce us to the characters and to get the story going ( which they do ) , i feel as though it could have been done much quicker , and less conventionally . 
i mean , did we really have to see the ship's crew at a wedding ? 
because of that , you now know exactly what's going to happen to the groom ! 
my other gripe would be during the film's finale . 
there's an explosion which ends the film that is one of the weakest looking cgi effects since the president's plane crashed into the ocean at the end of air force one . 
i cannot stress this enough . . . 
until a cgi effect can be made to look like a model effect , stick with using models . 
yes , u-571 is historically incorrect and there are surely some specifics in the plot that people who have been onboard a submarine will tell you " that couldn't happen " , but the overall point of this film is entertainment . 
it succeeds fantastically . 
[pg-13] 
we share the descent into darkness of a talented boy pianist . 
years later we see his subsequent resurfacing ; in the mid 80's a damaged man walks out of a rainstorm and back into the world . 
the movie charts the causes of his mental breakdown . 
based on the life story of david helfgott , this australian film is a rich exploration of the pressures drilling in upon a child-genius , compounded by the looming shadow of a domineering father . 
in the 1950's helfgott emerged as a child prodigy . 
the film traces his relationship with his father , whose encouragement comes at the cost of demanding david have no life beyond that of the black and white keys . 
david is offered places in the usa , but his father refuses to let him leave australia . 
the effect this has upon helfgott is cleverly told via a single reverse tracked shot ; david is sobbing on the front doorway of his music teacher's house . 
he is well lit via the external house lights . 
his teacher isn't home . 
we pull back and see that the dark front room's window has it's curtains open . 
there , in a pool of blackness , is a grand piano . 
david's fall over the dark cliff has begun . 
instead of being told in a linear mode , shine jumps around in time , ala " pulp fiction " . 
this narrative device works well ; we see david as a boy , teenager in london and mental-patient in various snippets . 
the film then neatly loops back for its uplifting conclusion . 
adult-helfgott's return to the light is told in linear fashion . 
the lead role is played by 3 different actors , with the teenage-david ( taylor ) and adult-david ( rush ) standing out . 
whilst rush is known for his tv work in australia , i think this is his first major cinema work . 
his david , whilst clearly damaged - he keeps quoting his " daddy " in a babbling word torrent , cuddles strangers and grabs women on the breasts - is both touching and funny . 
taylor's teenage-david is the more sympathy producing role . 
we are mute witness to his gradual breakdown as the pressures just keep on building . 
his father wants him to play the very demanding rachmaninov's 3rd , whilst his teacher wants to start him with a simple mozart . 
technically this is a beautiful film and a lot of thought has gone in to the production . 
i particularly like the use of slow motion and sound effects . 
one scene has adult-helfgott happily babbling in a car in the rain . 
the sound of the windshield wipers fades up over his voice . 
with a clever subtlety , the wiper sound appears to morph into a rhythmic thumping , but of the same beat . 
the image dissolves and we realise the thumping is the slow motion applause of a crowd . 
but it's us being clapped . 
we are young-david walking up to the stage for our first public show . 
the music , as you would expect from a film of this subject matter , is critical . 
and it works very well . 
the 'miming' of the actors piano playing is faultless ( apparently rush didn't mime ; he really did play ) 
helfgott's life is certainly not without it's sympathetic people . 
indeed his return to the 'normal' world is accelerated by his chance meetings with two very special women . 
his ultimately uplifting story is a magic piece of theatre craft . 
it shows that with the 'help of god' we can all find our way back home . 
today , war became a reality to me after seeing a screening of saving priivate ryan . 
steve spielberg goes beyond reality with his latest production . 
the audience is tossed about the theatre witnessing the horror of war . 
please keep the kids home as the r rating is for reality . 
tom hanks is stunning as capt john miller , set out in france during ww ii to rescue and return home a soldier , private ryan ( matt damon ) who lost three brothers in the war . 
spielberg at time takes us inside the heads of these individuals as they face death during the horrific battle scenes . 
private ryan is not for everyone , but i felt the time was right for a movie like this to be made . 
the movie reminds us of the sacrifices made by our ww ii fighting men and women . 
we must not ever forget them as many gave the ultimate sacrifice , their lives so that we may live in freedom today . 
for this i thank them and for steve spielberg for making a movie that i will never forget . 
the academy will not forget tom hanks come april 1999 , as another well deserved oscar with be in tom's posession . 
well , i'll admit when i first heard about this film ( which was before dante's peak ) i could just smell what 'twister' had started . 
so now it seems that we're in a full fledged return to the '70's disaster film era . 
with 'twister' , 'dante's peak' , 'volcano' and soon 'flood' and james cameron's extremly expensive 'titanic' 
i'll say first off i enjoyed 'volcano' much more than i did 'dantes peak' . 
part of that is just being biased as i usually enjoy anything that tommy lee jones appears in . 
i've been reading a lot about the movie being 'cheezy' or 'hokey' and really didn't see or think that once during the entire film . 
i get bored easily and this film didn't bore me for a minute . 
another thing , and boy am i bitching today ! , that bothers me is when critics and such go on about " well thats not really possible . " 
you know what ? 
i couldn't give a bloody damn if it's possible or not , really i couldn't . 
it's a freaking movie and i don't want reality thrown in my face . 
i want to be able to see the impossible , the all might " what if " to many reviewers have seen one to many movies ! 
the special effects are the second star to this feature . 
they are so amazing that i found it hard sometimes to believe they were indeed fx and la was was not burning to the ground . 
they did an incredible job and come oscar time ( if they remember ) some notice better be thrown there way . 
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
during the three years since the release of the groundbreaking success pulp fiction , the cinematic output from its creator , quentin tarantino , has been surprisingly low . 
oh , he's been busy -- doing the talk show circuit , taking small roles in various films , overseeing the production of his screenplay from dusk till dawn , making cameo appearances on television shows , providing a vignette for the ill-fated anthology four rooms -- everything , it seems , except direct another feature-length film . 
it's been the long intermission between projects as well as the dizzying peak which pulp fiction reached which has made mr . tarantino's new feature film , jackie brown , one of the most anticipated films of the year , and his third feature film cements his reputation as the single most important new american filmmaker to emerge from the 1990s . 
things aren't going well for jackie brown ( pam grier ) . 
she's 44 years old , stuck at a dead-end job ( " $16 , 000 a year , plus retirement benefits that aren't worth a damn " ) as a flight attendant for the worst airline in north america -- and she's just been caught at the airport by atf agent ray nicolette ( portrayed with terrific childlike enthusiasm by michael keaton ) and police officer mark dargus ( michael bowen ) smuggling $50 000 from mexico for gun-runner ordell robbie ( samuel l . jackson ) , who has her bailed out by unassuming bail bondsman max cherry ( robert forster ) . 
the loquacious ordell , based out of a hermosa beach house where his horny , bong-hitting surfer girl melanie ( bridget fonda ) and agreeable crony louis gara ( robert de niro ) hang out , operates under the policy that the best rat is a dead rat , and he's soon out to silence jackie brown . 
meanwhile , the authorities' target is ordell , and they want jackie to help them by arranging a sting to the tune of a half-million dollars . 
only through a series of clever twists , turns , and double-crosses will jackie be able to gain the upper hand on both of her nemeses . 
although jackie brown marks mr . tarantino's first produced screenplay adaptation ( based on the elmore leonard novel " rum punch " ) , there's no mistaking his distinctive fingerprints all over this film . 
while he's adhered closely to the source material in a narrative sense , the setting has been relocated to los angeles and the lead character's now black . 
in terms of ambiance , the film harkens back to the 1970s , from the wall-to-wall funk and soul music drowning the soundtrack to the nondescript look of the sets -- even the opening title credit sequence has the echo of vintage 1970s productions . 
the opening sequence featuring ms . grier wordlessly striding through the lax , funky music blaring away on the speakers , is emblematic of films of that era . 
the timeframe for the film is in fact 1995 , but the atmosphere of jackie brown is decidedly retro . 
of course , nothing in the film screams 1970s more than the casting of pam grier and robert forster as the two leads , and although the caper intrigue is fun to watch as the plot twists , backstabbing , and deceptions deliciously unfold , the strength of jackie brown is the quiet , understated relationship developed between jackie and max ; when they kiss , it's perhaps the most tender scene of the year . 
tenderness ? in a quentin tarantino film ? 
sure , there've been moments of sweetness in his prior films -- the affectionate exchanges between the bruce willis and maria de madeiros characters in pulp fiction and the unflagging dedication shared by the characters of tim roth and amanda plummer , or even in reservoir dogs , where a deep , unspoken bond develops between the harvey keitel and tim roth characters -- but for the most part , mr . tarantino's films are typified by manic energy , unexpected outbursts of violence , and clever , often wordy , banter . 
these staples of his work are all present in jackie brown , but what's new here is a different facet of his storytelling -- a willingness to imbue the film with a poignant emotional undercurrent , and a patience to draw out several scenes with great deliberation . 
this effective demonstration of range prohibits the pigeonholing of mr . tarantino as simply a helmer of slick , hip crime dramas with fast-talking lowlifes , and heralds him as a bonafide multifaceted talent ; he's the real deal . 
this new aspect of mr . tarantino's storytelling is probably best embodied in a single character -- that of the world-weary , sensitive , and exceedingly-professional max cherry , whose unspoken attraction to jackie is touching . 
mr . forster's nuanced , understated performance is the best in the film ; he creates an amiable character of such poignancy that when he gazes at jackie , we smile along with him . 
much press has been given about the casting of blaxploitation-era icon pam grier in the lead , with the wags buzzing that mr . tarantino may do for her what his pulp fiction did to bolster john travolta's then-sagging career . 
as it turns out , ms . grier is solid in the film's title role , although nothing here forces her to test her range . 
i do have to take exception to the claim that this film marks her career resurrection , though -- she's been working steadily over the years , often in direct-to-video action flicks , but also in such recent theatrical releases as tim burton's mars attacks ! 
and larry cohen's original gangstas ( where she first teamed up with mr . forster . ) 
of course , it's true that her role here was a godsend -- a meaty a part as this is rarity for * any * actress , let alone one of her age and current status in the industry . 
while jackie brown may disappoint those looking for another pulp fiction clone , it marks tremendous growth of mr . tarantino as a director whose horizons are rapidly expanding , and whose characterizations have never been better . 
and while the film's narrative doesn't really warrant a running time of 155 minutes , it's filled with such sumptuous riches , ranging from the brashness of the vivid soundtrack to entertaining , inconsequential conversations between the characters , that there wasn't an unengaging moment . 
with an impressive trio of feature films under his belt , it'll be interesting to see what he tries next . 
 " last night " could have an " aka " tagged on the end of it that says , " it's the end of the world , and we feel fine " . 
 " last night " is about just that . 
the last night of planet earth's existence . 
the world is going to end at precisely midnight , january 1st , 2000 . 
how scientists were so accurately able to predict when this catastrophic event would occur is never explained . 
nor is the event itself . 
throughout the entire movie , no explanation is given as to why this is happening . 
in doing this , mckellar ( who also wrote and directed the film ) seems to be trying to transcend the genre . 
he's attempted to make a film about people , and how each of them deals with their last night of life . 
the film contains no science fiction elements , which allows the viewer to concentrate on the feelings and actions of the characters . 
mckellar is largely successful in his attempt to rise above his material . 
the film is set in toronto , and follows several people in their various escapades on the last night of existence . 
there's mckellar , who plays a man who just wants to be alone when the moment occurs , but keeps getting interrupted by a woman ( sandra oh ) in search of her husband . 
her husband , played by david cronenberg , is spending the day working at the gas company , informing people that they will attempt to keep providing gas right up until the end . 
finally , there's mckellar's friend , played by callum keith rennie , a man who has spent his final months trying out every sexual perversion you can think of . 
mckellar has crafted a gang of the some of the most interesting characters i've seen in a film in months . 
these people all felt real to me , especially the character played by sandra oh . 
we can see her desperation , her utter need to be with her husband in the final hours . 
rennie is good , too , as the man who wants to literally try everything before he dies . 
he exudes such charm and likeablity , it's not surprising that we're rooting for him to get what he wants . 
but for me , the biggest surprise in the movie is mckellar . 
i knew that he was a talented director , but i had no idea he could act as well . 
his insistence to be alone , much to the dismay of his parents , is something that most people would find difficult to understand , but as played by mckellar , we can understand his reasons . 
he doesn't buy into the whole notion that just because everyone's going to die , he should immediately find some companionship . 
he realizes the relationship would be forced , and they would only be together for the sake of being together . 
mckellar gives a brilliant performance , and i hope he alternates between directing and acting . 
my only quibble with the film is that we never find out why the world is ending . 
i really wanted to know , and my need to know was hanging over the film at all times . 
i appreciate the fact that mckellar didn't want the material to rule the film , and that he wanted the movie to be more of a study in human behavious . 
however , in not telling the audience what the cause of earth's destruction is , he's left a big question that is in their minds throughout the film . 
another problem is we never see anybody panicking . 
i would imagine if the world was ending , and there was nothing to be done about it , a large segment of the population would be going out of their minds . 
instead , we are treated to shots of a giant crowd partying like it's new year's eve . 
i just didn't buy the fact that everyone had completely accepted their fate . 
no one had the urge to " rage against the dying of the light " . 
despite these small problems , " last night " is one of the best movies of the year . 
as opposed to the moronic " armageddon " , " last night " treats the subject at hand with maturity and believabilty . 
and bruce willis never shows up to save the day . 
 " a bug's life " may not be " toy story , " but it's more close than " antz " was . 
i really liked " antz , " basically because , yes , it is clever and witty and intelligent ( and it has the temerity to take a chance and put woody allen in the lead , perhaps the year's most inspired casting ) , but there was , in fact , something missing from it , and i'm the first to admit that . 
maybe it's that it never totally lets go and takes off into real innocent fun - it's too obsessed with its orwellian message to become totally engaging , and if it weren't for woody allen , it would have been just a really clever good-not-great flick . 
 " a bug's life " has a similar premise , and it also has disney to insure that it's g-rated and not totally over kids' heads like " antz " was ( not a bad thing , believe me ) , but what it also has is a tone that's completely innocent even when it's also remaining perpetually clever . 
 " antz " is still the more witty film , and i love it for it , and " a bug's life " is more for general consumption , but it's also more entertaining . 
it broadens its horizons , and when it really moves from the ant colony , it really shows us a whole new world we've never seen before , and it's take on the evolution of bugs is a lot better than the one in " antz . " 
it's also light and clever . 
the visuals are , instead of earth tones , bright worldly colors , and still gives the amazing visual technology of " antz " at least a worthy contender . 
the characters are also nicely realized - though watered-down for broad consumption , they still carry more wit than the contemporary disney animated films . 
the lead character , flik ( voiced by dave foley ) , is nothing more than a slightly-less neurotic z from " antz , " but foley makes him nearly as engaging as allen made z . instead of gene hackman playing the villain , we get the much more menacing kevin spacey as the lead grasshopper , the nicely-titled hopper . 
and for the romantic lead , we don't get spacey sharon stone , but intelligent and hard-to-get julia-louis dreyfuss , who doesn't even come around until the very final frames . 
not that the plot's really any better than the one in " antz " - it's basically yet another redux of " the seven samurai , " with an ant colony under the control of giant grasshoppers forcing them to produce a product for them or else . 
when flik , a bone fide inventor , creates a time-conserving apparatus that accidentally destroys the season's donation , he puts them all in risk , and is sent away so that he won't screw anything up with the pretense that he is searching for help to fight the grasshoppers . 
he runs into a group of " warrirors " who are , unbeknownst to him , a group of carnival bugs , and they agree to help under similar false pretenses . 
these bugs are an equally wonderful assortment to anything in " toy story " : foppish walking stick slim ( david hyde-pierce ) , german caterpillar heimlich ( joe ranft ) , quick-tempered and insecure male ladybug francis ( denis leary ) , pretentious praying mantis manny ( jonathan harris ) , his assistant butterfly hypsy ( madeliene kahn ) , spider rosie ( bonnie hunt ) , and two fleas , tuck and roll ( michael mcshane ) , who speak in undiscernable jibberish . 
the writers lightly touch on each bug's place in bug society and the malleability thereof while making a wisecracks at everything they can , and blowing the audience away with wild visual treats . 
grasshoppers jumping in unison seems like a menacing earthquake . 
a small bird becomes an ominous mortal threat , whose usual mild-mannered squeal is a scream of death . 
the bug city is a modern-day metropolis , complete with fireflies temping as traffic lights and a fly sitting on the curb , holding out a cup , with a sign lying next to him that says " kid tore off wings . " 
and a rainstorm is like a giant flood , with each drop acting like a small bomb dropped at millions of miles per hour . 
around this , the pixar animators stage several large set pieces , like a resuce mission halfway through that is as wild and entertaining as anything this year , and a wonderfully exciting action piece at the end , a chase scene at night through the labyrinthine branches of a small thicket . 
meanwhile , each character gets the spotlight to be completely idisyncratic and interesting , something " antz " couldn't do , and by the end , over the end credits , " a bug's life " pulls it's final punch , out clever-ing " antz " with a series of incessantly hilarious faux-bloopers that come just at the right time , when those who leave immeadiately after the final frame of a film have left , and you can brag that you were one of the elite who stayed and got the full money's worth of entertainment . 
still , it's no " toy story . " 
that film , maybe above any animated film i've ever seen , encompassed almost true perfection in story , character , and wit . 
it proved that it didn't need to brag about it's cutting edge technology to really soar ( it's the least visually striking of the three computer animated films thus far , but is still the most satisfying ) , and created a perfect world of idiosyncratic delights and innocent fun . 
yet " a bug's life , " as well as " antz , " are still amazing films , and prove without doubt , that if you're gonna make a computer animated film , send it to the guys who created these three flicks , evne if they're not working under the same roof . 
when i saw the trailer for " the sixth sense , " i didn't expect much from it . 
my snap judgment was that it was a watered-down version of " the shining " or possibly a late-entry in the glut of angel-related movies/tv shows of a couple years ago . 
but all the buzz motivated me to give it a shot . 
it turned out to be one of the most satisfying movie experiences of the year . 
bruce willis plays child psychologist malcolm crowe . 
at the beginning of the movie , he is admiring an award the city has given him for his work , but he is soon confronted by vincent , a patient malcolm failed years earlier ( donnie wahlberg-former new kid-in an impressive cameo ) . 
a year passes , and malcolm is treating another child with the same symptoms vincent displayed . 
cole sear ( haley joel osment ) is a withdrawn kid who is called " freak " by the other boys in the neighborhood . 
weird things seem to happen around cole-his mother ( olivia williams ) leaves the kitchen for a moment and returns to find every cabinet and drawer open even though cole hasn't moved-and cole seems to know things that a kid his age shouldn't-for example , that there was once a gallows in his school . 
he steals religious icons from churches to build a chapel in a pup tent in his bedroom . 
the trailer gave away the movie's first major plot twist . 
if it hadn't , the first hour of the movie would be more engrossing because we wouldn't know what's wrong with cole . 
if you're lucky enough to have not seen the trailer , stop reading this review right now and go see " the sixth sense . " 
anyway , since the trailer gave it away , i figure it's fair game to discuss here . 
once malcolm gains cole's trust , cole reveals his secret : he sees ghosts everywhere . 
dead people wander around not knowing that they're dead , invisible to everyone except cole . 
malcolm gradually begins to realize that cole is telling the truth . 
the box office success of " the sixth sense " has generated a lot of press about how horror movies rule the box office this year and lots of theories about why that's so . 
i hate to burst anybody's bubble , but " the sixth sense " isn't really a horror film . 
at its core , " the sixth sense " is a touching story of how a troubled kid and an emotionally-scarred adult help each other to move past their problems . 
some scenes with the ghosts are wonderfully creepy , though . 
one that really got to me : the ghost of a boy says to cole , " i'll show you where my dad keeps his gun " ; when the ghost turns , we see the bullet wound in the back of his head . 
osment gives the best performance i've ever seen from a child actor . 
it's hard enough to find a grown-up in hollywood who can give a subtle , realistic portrayal ! 
although willis gets top billing , cole is really the protagonist of the story , and osment truly brings the complex kid to life . 
if only willis' work were as impressive . 
accustomed to delivering catchphrases rather than dialogue , willis is stiff and awkward as malcolm , his most challenging role to date . 
 ( this is a bad omen for his next movie , " the story of us , " which chronicles the ups and downs of a marriage ) . 
writer/director m . night shyamalan has a light , poetic touch that goes to the heart of the viewer without seeming sappy or trite . 
he's also a skillful storyteller , as the movie's ending demonstrates . 
only when the final secret is revealed do you realize that shyamalan has been hinting at it throughout the movie . 
look for a cameo by the director as a doctor who treats cole . 
bottom line : osment should get an oscar nomination , and you should go see this movie . 
near the end of frank capra's holiday classic , its a wonderful life , george bailey ( jimmy stewart ) is feeling down . 
he has devoted his life to others , and never fulfilled his dream of leaving his small supburb town , bedford falls . 
standing upon a bridge above stormy waters , he looks down , contemplating suicide . 
he has potential he hasn't fulfilled -- yet , he has done so much for others . 
as a young chap , his ambition was to leave his hometown of bedford falls . 
but times and ambitions change . 
things happen , and he's stuck . 
his guardian angel is there , and shows him that . . . it's 
a wonderful life . 
in a whirlwind tour of the town , george sees what life would be like without him . 
he learns the moral lesson , that to live is a gift . 
his earthly problems are solved . 
the climatic scene is a marvel . 
frank capra's film is a centenial classic -- watched and re-experienced by every generation . 
wonderful life is one of the few pictures of times gone by that seems as fresh , maybe fresher , then it did when it was first released . 
many films of the thirties through seventies have aged poorly . 
but this one is a near flawless example of how well a perfect script and timing can mesh with first-rate acting , wit and suspense , glorious music , and terrific set peices . 
the only even slightly dated scenes are those at the begining in which god has a long chat with clarence , george's guardian angel . 
they aren't all that bad , but they remain corny and a little out of place . 
nevertheless , this is one film that deserves its place in time , cinema history , and our hearts . 
it can be equally appreciated by anyone of any age . 
here is one genuine masterpeice , a classic that reaches heights and ambitions near perfection . 
this crackling good mixture results in a film which is at once funny , exciting , moving and uplifting . 
the film itself is almost a reversal of the life of george bailey -- there isn't too much to it , but capra and the gang ( various screenwriters , composers , actors ) plumet the material to its fullest potential . 
the result is a film -- though not at first intended to be pigeon-holed as a holiday film -- that will always be remembered , celebrated , and loved . 
jerry springer has got nothing on " wild things . " 
john mcnaughton's new thriller tackles more tawdry themes in less than two hours than springer's notoriously sleazy talk show broadcasts in two weeks -- bisexuality , threesomes , poolside catfights , slutty rich bimbos , even redneck gator-wrestling , they're all part of the movie's raucous , complex storyline . 
but even trash tv topicality can't drag " wild things " down -- this crazy campfest plays like something you'd find late-night on the usa network , only infinitely more palatable and with a solid ensemble cast . 
despite a smattering of needless scenes ( most of them sexual in nature ) , there's wicked fun to be had here . 
 " wild things " would be a guilty pleasure , only there's no guilty feeling involved in having a good time with it . 
high school guidance counselor sam lombardo ( matt dillon ) is well-liked in the town of blue bay , especially by pretty , popular kelly van ryan ( denise richards ) , whose family name is among the florida yachting enclave's most financially prominent . 
hoping to take her crush to a physical level , kelly seductively slinks into lombardo's house after washing his jeep for a fundraiser , but , the very next day , tearfully admits to her trollop mother ( theresa russell ) that she was raped . 
before long , blue bay detectives ray duquette ( kevin bacon ) and gloria perez ( daphne rubin-vega ) are listening to similar allegations from kelly's rebel classmate suzie toller ( neve campbell ) . 
lombardo , who maintains his innocence , hires neck brace-sporting , opportunistic lawyer ken bowden ( bill murray ) to defend him in court . 
the previews give away the following revelations , so if you haven't seen any of the movie's spots on the television or in the theater , you might want to skip to the next paragraph . 
while cross-examining suzie on the witness stand , bowden gets her to break down and admit that the alleged rapes never took place -- that kelly had concocted this entire scheme because she was angry that lombardo was sleeping with her mother and not with her . 
to pay lombardo for the damages , kelly's mother breaks her daughter's trust fund and gives him $8 . 5 million . 
but lombardo , kelly and suzie are actually all working together , and plan to take the money and run as fast as they can . 
duquette and perez , however , begin to suspect that there's more afoot to the case than just false accusations . 
if there's a major drawback to " wild things , " it's that it's oversexed to a fault . 
the much-talked-about hotel room menage-a-trois between dillon , campbell and richards is a turn-off . 
it's also cut short ( sorry , guys ) , and should have been cut shorter -- the movie grinds to a halt for pure titillation once too often . 
what we don't see is far more effective than what we do . 
another example of this is kevin bacon needlessly going the full monty in a shower scene . 
er , no thanks . 
also , bacon's duquette feels simultaneously underdeveloped and overwritten . 
daphne rubin-vega , from broadway's " rent , " tries to compensate for a superfluous character . 
theresa russell is just plain wooden . 
and when , in the end , all is out in the open , ask yourself if certain scenes involving these three were really necessary . 
but what keeps the movie from being throwaway junk is an engaging chain of surprises ( some predictable , some not ) that never seems to end . 
 " wild things " has more twists than a crate full of corkscrews , and most are so gleefully , over-the-top nasty that you can't help but be charmed by their absurd showmanship . 
a great deal of amusement also comes from watching bill murray in a supporting part that appears to have been written for his sly comedic talent ; murray's a stitch , especially when pulling up beside the van ryan limo after winning lombardo's case and flipping them off . 
and don't leave when the closing credits hit the screen , or you'll miss the film's best part -- four bonus flashbacks that smooth over plot holes while offering a few more tiny turns , plus a final scene that caps everything off with a great stunner of a bombshell . 
speaking of bombshells , denise richards , who plays almost every scene in a blue bikini top , does the teen tease thing with a malicious allure that she was never allowed to flaunt in " starship troopers . " 
matt dillon flexes his sleepy-voiced sex appeal , and pulls off personality changes with chameleonic precision . 
neve campbell , lovely as ever except when sporting a blond wig , gives suzie a vengeful vulnerability that makes her the most interesting member of the conspiring trio . 
re-edited and toned down a bit , the dynamics between these three actors could have carried the film to greater lengths . 
but what we're given works well enough . 
 " wild things " is highly entertaining and , indeed , very wild . 
the happy bastard's 30-second review 
big daddy 
happy gilmore as a father ? 
of course ! 
that's the latest scenario presented by adam sandler in the new movie big daddy , a movie that's passable but isn't really considered some of sandler's best work . 
he doesn't actually play happy gilmore in the movie , but a variation of him . 
he's sonny coufax , a man who's living off a settlement he got for a cab running over his foot and his one-day-a-week gig as a tollbooth man ( tollbooth willie ? ) . 
his girlfriend ( kristy swanson ) is fed up with his lifestyle and demands a change before she leaves him . 
enter a 5-year old kid , who's mysteriously dropped at his doorstep and intended for his preppy roommate ( jon stewart ) , who's off in china on a business trip . 
from there , coufax basically acts as the kid's father , teaching him different things like peeing on the side of a building and tripping up skateboarders with sticks . 
he even manages to use the kid in a sort of con game to get the attention of a beautiful law office worker ( joey lauren adams ) , but , somehow , he also garners the attention of social services , who aren't particularly pleased with coufax's actions , as he pretends to be his roommate to keep the kid . 
the reason i say it's not really sandler's best work is because it gets really sappy towards the end of a movie , showing some odd feelings that somehow didn't really belong in a sandler vehicle . 
i mean , it fits the movie's tone and everything , and sandler handles it well , but it's just oddly placed , that's all . 
fortunately , it doesn't destroy the goofy glee path it's been following and it still makes you feel good . 
sandler does a good job here , as he does in most of his movies . 
rob schneider , however , is irritating as his friend , an immigrant delivery boy who can't read . 
stewart , in his minor time on screen , is great , and adams remains a joy to watch . 
look for steve buscemi as well as a homeless bum . 
he's a hoot . 
directed by dennis dugan ( director of happy gilmore ) , the movie remains a good couple of hours to pass the time with . 
again , there are faults , but , hey , everyone needs to get emotional sometimes . 
 " six days , seven nights " is a summer movie that gets the summer movie experience deliciously right , a commendable achievement considering the season thus far has been littered with some pretty uneven fare . 
here's a genuinely fun fluff piece that knows it's fluff , recognizes it's fluff and is admittedly proud to be fluff . 
of course , the casting of harrison ford in the broadly comedic lead role plays a sizeable part in the movie's success ; ford is such a concentrated dramatic actor that it's easy to forget what a funny guy he can be . 
as his female counterpart , anne heche also deserves a big pat on the back for her sweet , goofily charismatic performance . 
the age difference ( ford's 56 , heche's 29 ) matters not -- these two click in a charged way that's hard to come by . 
the story is a no-brainer -- ford stars as gruff but loveable island aviator quinn harris , while heche is career-minded but loveable new york magazine editor robin monroe . 
robin , on a tropical vacation with fianc ? frank ( david schwimmer ) , gets assigned to supervise an emergency photo shoot in nearby tahiti , so she reluctantly hires quinn to fly her there . 
the plane crashes during a terrible storm , and they immediately find themselves stuck in a deserted paradise with few ideas on getting back to civilization . 
a series of unpleasant , often hilarious catastrophes leaves little choice but for both members of this unlikely odd couple to fall for each other . 
meanwhile , back at the resort , frank is tempted himself by quinn's shapely female tagalong ( jacqueline obradors ) . 
that subplot obviously exists to get us rooting for the quinn-robin pairing , and while it makes for a few good laughs early on , it eventually becomes a contrived distraction from the far more engrossing misadventures of quinn and robin . 
and since the film spends most of its time with the castaways , this flaw is only a minor inconvenience . 
director ivan reitman keeps the pace brisk . 
at a slim 101 minutes , " six days , seven nights " never wears out its welcome , where a lesser film could have felt like it was as long as its title . 
michael browning's clever screenplay allows for plenty of notable one-liners ( my favorite , taken in context , is " you mean _arrrgh_ pirates ? " ) , and though it essentially boils down to one mishap after another , they're all quite engaging . 
even the movie's more " serious " moments are played with a wink . 
heche has been under undeserved fire over whether or not her private life with ellen degeneres would affect the " believability " of " six days , seven nights " ' heterosexual pairing . 
 ( so she's a lesbian . 
so what . 
deal with it . ) 
of course it doesn't , and here , her naysayers are proved wrong in a big way . 
in fact , her chemistry with ford is what really makes the film click ; these opposites attract with the utmost , endearing electricity . 
at one point , when the two are discussing the likelihood of romantic interest , heche asks ford how old he is . 
after several wrong guesses ( " forty-five ? 
_fifty_ ? " ) , he whispers his age to her . 
 " you still look good , " heche stammers . 
 " i still _am_ good , " ford replies . 
she's good too , and together , they make " six days , seven nights " one memorable ride . 
the release of dolores claiborne into wide release this weekend adds another entry into the long list of film adaptations of stephen king's work . 
this slow-moving character study provides some outstanding acting performances by the principals , but suffers from a tepid conclusion , inconsistent direction , and may not have wide commercial appeal . 
when the maid , dolores claiborne , is found brandishing a rolling pin standing over the bloody and dead body of her employer , it seems like an open-and-shut murder case . 
upon hearing of the death via a mysterious fax , dolores' estranged and bitter daughter , esquire magazine writer selena st . george , returns from new york back to her tiny island village childhood home . 
as the two clash horns , the story behind the mysterious death of dolores' abusive husband two decades ago , ruled an accident despite the protests of detective john mackey , is revealed . 
did dolores kill her husband ? 
and did she kill her employer ? 
dolores claiborne is certainly more of a character study than a suspense thriller . 
consequently , it is fortunate that their cast includes some of hollywood's finest character actors , such as bates , leigh and strathairn . 
kathy bates plays the film's title character , and gives a sensational lead performance . 
dolores claiborne is essentially a showcase for the talent of bates , as her character has a huge amount of screen time . 
she dominates the screen , producing a character that is compelling and arresting , as we watch the character go through two decades of history via flashbacks . 
kathy bates' performance is award-calibre stuff . 
the rest of the cast is also very good . 
jennifer jason leigh plays the perpetually sour , bitter helena st . george well , and christopher plummer seems to be enjoying himself as dolores' ever-present nemesis , the determined detective john mackey . 
david strathairn is particularly interesting and suitably smarmy and despicable as dolores' husband , joe st . george . 
judy parfitt is fine as dolores' tyrannic socialite employer , vera donovan--it would have been interesting to see , say , meg foster in this role . 
child actor ellen muth is also worth noting as the young selena during the flashback sequences ; she is very impressive . 
the direction of dolores claiborne by taylor hackford wildly varies throughout the film , ranging from some parts which are quite clever in their own right , to parts which are embarrassingly hokey . 
the segues between flashbacks and the present are very hit-and-miss in terms of effectiveness . 
the pacing of the film tends to be numbingly slow , which tends to undermine any suspense which might be built up . 
however , the cinematography by gabriel beristain is wonderful--i particularly like the chilling ice-blue hue permeating the present-day scenes , contrasting well with the many nova scotia ocean shots--and danny elfman provides a surprisingly understated score for the film . 
it would seem that the commercial potential of dolores claiborne is limited . 
none of the performers in the film could be classified as a big draw , and its pacing may be a turn-off to those expecting a gripping suspense film filled with twists and turns and car crashes and axe-wielding psychopaths . 
although being essentially the only film in its genre in release now , it may also be hurt by the negative perception of king works , even with the recent critical success of the shawshank redemption and the stand . 
dolores claiborne suffers from a very unsatisfying conclusion , and moves very slowly . 
however , the performances are uniformly excellent , particularly kathy bates , and the film has its moments . 
on my four-star scale , i give dolores claiborne three stars . 
seen september 13 , 1998 at 4 p . m at rotterdam square mall cinema 6 , theater #2 , with chris wessell for free using my sony/loews critic's pass . 
[theater rating : * * 1/2 : good seats , average sound , picture unstable] 
 " rounders " is exactly the kind of movie parents don't want their kids to see . 
it's not that it's a drunken orgy of sex and violence , but because it's a film that flat-out says you can make a career out of gambling . 
and to take make things " worse " it proves this through its original , fascinating story . 
there have been countless crime films both past and present that evoke the " noir " mood , that is , the dark , shady atmosphere where the vices of the world become more fascinating on screen than they would in real life . 
this film starts off in the tradiational noir style , introducing us to the underworld of modern gambling where the stakes are high and so is the price for losing . 
matt damon stars as mike mcdermott , a 20-something law student in present-day new york city who tells us how the game of poker is really played . 
damon narrates throughout the film , but the entire opening scene is voiced-over so perfectly to completely and totally define the setting . 
mike's about to go up against teddy kgb ( malkovich ) , a russian gangster who looks like a serial killer . 
but then again , he practically is one and the film does everything to convey that sense - the look in his eyes , his slow movements , his intricate mannerisms - all combined with the classic noir cinematography of isolated brightness within the darkness of the underworld ( literally ) . 
damon in the flesh might seem a little out of place with his expensive clothes and perfectly-groomed features , but his narration is what brings it all together . 
he never sounds like he's reading from a script , nor that he's trying to embellish anything , it just comes natural to him . 
the screenwriters use the right words and phrases to describe the mood , from the smell of the air , to the logic involved in reading the other guys' faces and cards , and all without sounding remotely trite . 
immediately we get the sense that poker isn't for gamblers , but for near- geniuses with nerves of steel . 
the game is a quiet war , with strategies just as complex and the same sense of honor among the soldiers . 
the gangsters mike plays against are the same ones that might kill someone for scratching their car , but when it comes to the game of poker , all respect is due to the winner because he is truly the better man . 
the film does an excellent job in establishing its atmosphere during the first act . 
it concentrates so much in this aspect that the background and the progression of the story stumble a bit . 
we learn only a little about mike , both past and present . 
presently we know he has a girlfriend named jo ( gretchen mol ) who he constantly argues with over his gambling . 
they go through a few break-up/make-up cycles until mike's childhood pal and fellow rounder " worm " ( norton ) is released from prison . 
it's not at all surprising worm owes thousand of dollars to the mob , but what is surprising is how the film is able to take such a predictable element and execute it the way it does . 
technically , the plot isn't unlike many children's sitcoms in which the " good " kid's " bad " friend gets the good kid in trouble and yet the good kid remains friends with the bad kid . 
what this film does is use a different medium to tell that story . 
mike and worm have been in over their heads their entire lives , but both share a passion for out-thinking the other player who is trying to do the same to them . 
where as worm prefers to go the sleazy route of cheating ( hence his jail time ) , mike always takes the cards he's dealt and works with them . 
sometimes they pay off ( i . e . 
his ability to pay his way through law school on his gambling money ) , but other times they don't ( i . e . 
the fact he takes himself out of the game and works a steady job after dropping $30 , 000 on a single hand ) . 
once things start happening the film is able to expand and develop its plot into an intricate web of detail and mood . 
mike and worm bob and weave through all kinds of games at all kinds of places , from socialites' mansions , to taking the tourists at atlantic city , to outwitting the gangsters that control it all . 
everything they come into contact with is a big poker game in that everything's a battle against the cards destiny deals . 
one scene demonstrates this perfectly in which mike is told by a judge ( martin landou , in a perfectly cast and performed role ) that destiny is everything and yet nothing at the same time . 
matt's good at gambling but he's also got potential to be a great lawyer . 
he could go professional as either , but with one he could lose everything or win big , but with the other there's stability but not much risk involved . 
can someone who's gambled his entire life really cash in his chips and leave ? 
if the film had been just a subtle lesson in poker-playing , then the ending is our test . 
everything is told from mike's perspective , but we're finally able to recognize some things on our own . 
this makes the final , against-all- odds showdown seem like just that . 
it works just like the game it revolves around - showing us some of the cards , but still evokes the element of the unknown , and the consequences thereof . 
what separates " rounders " from most other films about games is the fact the challenge and the skills are more important than winning in the end . 
there was a lot riding on this movie . 
everyone even moderately interested in the " scream " series was dying to know how it would end . 
what would be the " final act " ? 
this is the end of an era for them , a movie which has kept them up nights searching for clues on the internet , talking and tossing around rumors with their equally enthused buddies , and , for kids under 17 , those elaborate plots consisting of buying a ticket to one movie and hopping into " scream " while narrowly escaping those menacing ushers who are only a year or two older than themselves . 
no need to worry ; " scream 3 " is endlessly inventive and entertaining , a fine epilogue to the series that made kevin williamson a household name , reinvented the horror genre , and continued in the self-referential , post-modern tradition of quentin and co . 
so , how does the story go ? 
as opposed to what some fanatical internet sites would have you believe , sidney prescott ( neve campbell ) , now all-grown-up and constantly dealing with her pass in the constantly tormented sector of her psyche , is not living in hollywood fulfilling her dream to become an actress , but rather in upstate california , living , understandably , alone in the confines of fences and vast security systems . 
she works at home as a crisis center affiliate over the phone . 
but that ? ? ? s not where the movie starts off . 
instead , in a tactic that reminded me of the somewhat similar , and conceptually horrifying , sequence in " eye for an eye " ( 1995 ) , cotton weary ( liev schreiber ) , now a big star , drives home to his girlfriend in traffic when the killer calls , demands the location of sidney ? ? ? s home , and , when he doesn ? ? ? t get it , threatens the life of cotton ? ? ? s girlfriend christine , and cotton can ? ? ? t do anything to stop him . 
the rest of the sequence is particularly clever , setting up a constant throughout the picture : the killer has a high-tech electronic voice-changer that tops that of the first two . 
not only does he sound unmistakably like talented voice-over artist roger jackson ( ha , ha ) , he can now easily duplicate the voices of the lead characters , including sidney , and the returned gale weathers ( courtney cox arquette ) and dewey riley ( david arquette ) . 
at the same time , stab 3 , the third film-within-a-film based around the characters and events of woodsboro and windsor college , has taken a less authentic approach this time around in return to woodsboro ; whereas the account of the first two films was true , the franchise within " scream " has now become totally fictional . 
nevertheless , we learn , cotton made an appearance in the movie which is now in production , as himself to be killed off in the first scene . 
so , it seems that the real killer is offing our heroes in the order in which they bite it in the movie ? ? 'either the actor portraying them , or the real thing . 
sometimes both . 
clever , indeed . 
but , who goes next ? 
no one knows . 
three different scripts were penned , we ? ? ? re told , to keep the true finale off the internet ( a nod to the " scream " 2 fiasco a few years back ) and no one knows for sure which one the killer read . 
still , all the while sidney stays concealed in her home , only visiting dad for the first half-hour of the film , while also having horrifying visions of her mother , which takes us back a bit to sidney ? ? ? s fear of becoming what her mother was ? ? 'or , at least , what her mother was secretly . 
when sidney finally ventures out to hollywood as the murders become more prevalent , she ? ? ? s chased onto the set of stab 3 , wandering through " woodsboro , " written and directed as an odd , surreal , nightmare indeed , this is one of " scream 3 " ? ? ? s finest moments . 
okay , over the years , i ? ? ? ll admit that i ? ? ? ve become quite the " scream " fan . 
no , i don ? ? ? t have the ghostface costume or the director ? ? ? s cut laserdisc , but i often find myself compelled to pop in the dvd of either member of the preceding duo , and can get quite caught up in the dramatic element of these films ( yes , i said " dramatic element " ) , sometimes debating with family and friends the possibilities and endless theories that have become quintessentially affiliated with " scream " . 
throughout the film , though , i noticed a much more subtle approach than the other two films . 
granted that there ? ? ? s stabbin-a-plenty going on throughout , but there ? ? ? s considerably less blood , less gore . 
honestly , i like this approach . 
it ? ? ? s more classical , more rebellious , constantly demonstrating the capable direction of wes craven . 
he knows when to hold back and at the same time makes the movie ooze with energy , illustrating the delicate poise flowing from his years of experience . 
some critics have noted that " scream 3 " seems to take itself more seriously this time ; maybe so , or maybe screenwriter ehren kruger ( arlington road ) , who took over after williamson had scheduling conflicts , saw an opportunity for true irony ? ? 'maybe even a little bit of satire ? ? 'if the film worked in a few more clich ? ? s . 
what puts a damper on this otherwise exceptional and creative film , i ? ? ? m afraid , is the ending , or , rather , the identity of the killer . 
it does the job , i guess , accomplishes what it should , bringing the three films full circle , but upon my first viewing it seemed rather dissatisfying because it appears a little too contrived , too arbitrary ; after a second viewing , which i endeavored upon due to this recurring disapprobation , the killer ? ? ? s identity still seems a little too random , but his motivation came across more sound this time around , and the eventual conclusion was ultimately more satisfying . 
all in all , " scream 3 " does not fall victim to the most lamented principle of a trilogy : it is not the worst of the films . 
as a trilogy , " scream " was a lot of fun ; refreshing , humorous , offbeat . 
almost sad to see it go . 
but then , it does seem best to quit while you ? ? ? re ahead , and " scream 3 " does a fine job of providing closure to its characters . 
for now , " scream " holds the title as the finest series of horror films to be committed to celluloid . 
not too shabby . 
ingredients : pouring rain , small flooded town , damn about to burst , bad guys going after millions of dollars 
synopsis : at one point in the story townsperson karen asks hero tom what happened to her church . 
he replies something like : " the church is flooded but at least the floodwaters put out the big fire . 
well , the fire wasn't that bad , since , while the church was burning , looters apparently thought it was safe enough to break through all the priceless stained glass windows . " 
in hard rain a small town is nearly deserted due to flooding . 
everyone has had to evacuate because it's raining , and now floodwaters are rising so high that buildings are being submerged and the nearby dam is about to break . 
enter a working class smart-alecky new armored car driver named tom ( christian slater ) . 
suddenly his security truck carrying over three million dollars gets stuck on the flooded street and is waylaid by armed looters . 
tom has no choice but to grab the bag full of money , hide it , and swim for his life . 
this makes for an action movie full of jet skis , speedboat chases , and gun battles , as tom tries to evade and outsmart corrupt cops and armed looters until the national guard can answer his distress call . 
he is befriended and aided by a spunky churchgoing young woman from town named karen ( minnie driver ) . 
but unknown to tom and karen , the national guard never heard tom's initial distress call . 
will tom and karen survive the natural and manmade disasters ? 
opinion : don't expect thought-provoking issues or dramatics . 
there's not much more to this movie than hiding , running , swimming , shooting , and saving handcuffed heroes from drowning , but that's what makes it escapist and fun . 
relax , take your shoes off , and break out the popcorn . 
although many people have compared this new gangster comedy to the hit hbo drama 'the sopranos , ' analyze this is witty and entertaining enough to be a good movie in it's own right . 
billy crystal plays wiseguy shrink ben sobol , who new 'patient' happens to be gangster boss paul vitti ( de niro . ) 
ben wants nothing to do with vitti , as he's about to get married to laura macnamara ( kudrow ) and having a gangster as a patient wouldn't really help . 
but ben is soon drawn into vitti worlds , and reluctantly helps vitti to sort his life out . 
all done in a comic fashion , of course . 
although never brilliant , analyze this is also never rubbish , which makes for a fun ride . 
billy crystal , who hasn't had a good role since city slickers way back in the early '90's , is given a role that lets him fully exploit his wiseguy act . 
he's pretty funny while he does it , and although his character is a little close to his character in city slickers , he's pretty funny . 
robert de niro is hilarious as vitti , playing it dead straight but coming off as really funny . 
he's a serious gangster unaware that he is a comic gold mine . 
lisa kudrow , barely seen as crystals' estranged wife to be , basically reprises her phoebe role from t . v series friends , which is getting rather tiresome , and doesn't come off well on the screen . 
the supporting cast is apparently made up of the entire cast of casino and goodfellas , and are all funny caricatures , especially vitti's bodyguard jelly ( joe viterelli . ) 
the film genuinely plays like a proper gangster movie , but with laughs instead of hard ass talking . 
it sometimes gets a little bloody for a light hearted film , but it strangely fits in . 
spoofs are made of famous gangster movies , including a nice parody of the godfather . 
the italian tunes playing throughout the soundtrack contribute to the fun . 
there's also some odd plot points : fbi guys appear and suddenly disappear for no apparent reason . 
it is true that analyze this has had a somewhat chequered production history , and perhaps the plot points were expanded in a earlier version of the script . 
unfortunately , this is hollywood , so we will never know . 
harold ramis , best known as egon from ghostbusters , has a deft touch with directing comedy , as shown in the immortal groundhog day , and the less immortal caddyshack . 
all the comic potential in a scene is dug out and presented to the audience . 
the script , written by ramis along with peter tolan and ken lonergan , starts off funny , remains funny for the most of the film , but sadly peters out somewhat during the last twenty minutes where it wrongly enters more serious territory . 
the film is short , however , and just before audience interest is waning the film suddenly goes into a rather rushed and unsatisfying ending and the credits roll . 
analyze this is a good comedy , and is certainly worth watching . 
robert de niro sobbing is reason enough to watch it , even though it does seem forced , or like a parody ( although i think this was intentional . ) 
crystal is his most likeable in years , kudrow is given as little screen time as possible , which is a good thing , and de niro is just awesome . 
it's no goodfellas , and it probably won't be remembered as much as groundhog day , but analyze this is a well done comedy that won't leave you feel cheated . 
 " being john malkovich " is the type of film we need to see more . 
today's films are either blockbusters that entertain us with tiresome formulas , or those that have similar themes . 
malkovich falls under none of these categories , and it's quite refreshing to see that occur . 
this strangely provoking story , is actually somewhat understandable . 
john cusack plays a puppeteer trying to make it to the big time . 
his wife ( cameron diaz ) supports the both of them by working at a petstore , which explains the obscure pets they keep in their apartment . 
when cusack finally realizes he needs to get a job , he finds an ad for a filing clerk . 
when he reaches the building , he arrives at a 7 1/2 floor . 
it's there that he discovers a secret portal that leads to being john malkovich for 15 minutes at a time . 
meanwhile , cusack meets a business partner ( catherine keener ) , in which he falls madly in love with her . 
the only problem is , she has no interest in him what so ever . 
the whole portal thing , isn't just a toy , in fact , it becomes cusack's dream . 
being inside malkovich's mind , gave him the opportunity to basically control mlakovich , like a puppet , and to fulfill his fantasies . 
i don't want to give away too much , but cusack becomes too attached with his discovery . 
in my opinion , this idea is absolutely brilliant . 
it's really quite scary to think that someone could become you , control you , be you . 
it makes you wonder why we act like we do , and why sometimes we blurt out things or act out something out of the blue . 
even if the script is super sharp , i can't help but find the ending displeasing . 
it could have lead up to something more , or at least an amusing conclusion . 
it tried to explain a mythology about the portals , that made it seem rushed . 
other than that , i had a very enjoyable time . 
the acting was quite delightful as well . 
john cusack has finally been given a chance to prove his ability , and he does it well . 
he's by far the most underrated actor due to a lack of popularity , but i'm hoping that will change . 
cameron diaz was her usual charming self , although i felt that part was wrong for her , but she pulled it off . 
john malkovich himself continues to creep out people with his eerie facial expressions and tone of voice . 
who else's mind would be better to explore ? 
the director , spike jonze , who appeared in last month's three kings really catches my attention with this project . 
i knew he was bizzare , but not to this extreme . 
he too is likely too receive media attention . 
 " being john malkovich " isn't an excellent film , but it is definitly entertaining and will eaisly become a cult favorite . 
what's even better is the film's puzzling message . . . am 
i nick lyons ? 
as feel-good formulaic as it may be in its own way , shall we dance ? 
also demonstrates a kind of charming restraint you don't often find in american films . 
this japanese import tells the story of a middle-aged accountant named sugiyama ( koji yakusho ) whose mundane life is shaken up one night when he spots beautiful mai kishikawa ( tamiyo kusakari ) in the window of a dance school . 
intrigued by her melancholy demeanor ( and slightly infatuated with her ) , sugiyama signs up for weekly classes at the school -- and , much to his amazement , ends up as attracted to dancing itself as to his young sensei . 
meanwhile , sugiyama's wife ( hideko hara ) becomes suspicious of his late wednesday nights , and sets a private detective on her husband's trail . 
in a hollywood film , you can bet that sub-plot would be turned into a stream of slapstick comedy and crazy misunderstandings . 
in shall we dance ? , writer/director masayuki suo dispenses with it in a matter of minutes , using it to set up later character interactions rather than letting it overwhelm the story with pratfalls . 
neither does he make the climactic moment of victory a competition between the hero and some mean-spirited token rival . 
suo gives his comedy the graceful movements of his subject matter , allowing the humor to flow from the characters rather than forcing it upon them . 
an opening prologue in shall we dance ? 
goes to some effort to place the film in a sociological perspective , explaining how contrary ballroom dancing is to the japanese sense of propriety . 
it's a forced message in a story which doesn't need such a culture-specific angle . 
the dance school in shall we dance ? 
plays the role of a singles' mixer , with everyone vaguely embarrassed to be there yet taking the opportunity to try on new personalities . 
most amusing among these new personalities is the one adopted by sugiyama's co-worker mr . aoki ( naoto takenaka ) , a balding systems analyst who becomes a fiery latin lover when he dons a frizzy wig and begins to rumba . 
sugiyama's awakening is less overt , but koji yakusho does a wonderful job showing a transformation of small steps . 
it's a delicate performance with a huge heart . 
shall we dance ? 
is a fairly lightweight experience , which makes its final half hour rather a long sit . 
suo crams a lot of exposition into very little time , including an unnecessarily detailed back-story for mai , resulting in a sluggish march towards the resolution . 
it is here that shall we dance ? 
feels most hollywood-conventional , attempting to blind-side the audience with a truckload of emotional catharsis . 
suo might have been better advised to conclude with the small gem of a scene in which sugiyama and his wife take their first tentative dance steps together . 
that's the real joy of dance shall we dance ? 
conveys : its ability to create an intoxicating mood of romance which can soften the stiffest shirt . 
 " the tailor of panama " is a different kind of spy movie . 
despite the presence of pierce brosnan , there is nary a hint of james bond flash here . 
instead of big action scenes , leering super villains and empty-headed femme fatales , we get interesting characters and an intriguing situation . 
based on the novel by john le carr ? , who also co-wrote the screenplay , the film offers viewers something rarely seen in theaters this time of year : a solid , well-told story . 
brosnan plays andy osnard , a british operative walking on thin ice . 
his british superiors ship him off to panama , making sure he understands that he had better not screw up the placement . 
osnard arrives in the tropics virtually oozing contempt for his new co-workers and his new home base . 
when shown the bridge of the americas by a person marveling over the fact that , since the creation of the panama canal , the structure is the sole connection between north and south america , he barely keeps from yawning . 
brosnan clearly relishes the chance to be the antithesis of 007 , investing the suave spy with a distinct reptilian quality coupled with an air of indifference that irks his fellows to no end . 
searching for a way to get information on the government , osnard sets his sights on harry pendel ( geoffrey rush ) , an unctuous tailor serving the panamanian elite . 
harry claims to be a transplant from britain's renowned saville row , but osnard knows his secret : the tailor is an ex-con who served five years in prison after torching his uncle's shop in an insurance scam . 
he also knows that harry is up to his ears in debt , having spent a fortune on an unsuccessful farm . 
osnard offers harry a way out . 
he will pay for information harry has gathered from his upscale clientele . 
eager to comply , harry offers what he knows , then starts concocting tidbits to keep the money flowing . 
before long , he is forced to spy on his loving wife , louisa ( jamie lee curtis ) , an aide to the canal director . 
harry's little lies build , eventually taking on a life of their own . 
osnard turns in reports about the " silent opposition , " a group threatening to upset the balance of control over the canal . 
the bogus revelation proves explosive , leading to meetings in washington d . c . over how to best protect the vital waterway . 
meanwhile , osnard wallows in his newfound status , enjoying the best the city has to offer and wooing an attractive co-worker . 
and harry grows ever more fretful , fearing the consequences if his clients , not to mention his wife , learn about his lies . 
geoffrey rush is wonderful as harry , fawning over his customers by day and savoring his rich family life in the evenings , all while playing secret agent in the off hours with his new benefactor . 
rush makes harry a credible figure , presenting the various levels of the character so effectively that he remains sympathetic despite his duplicity . 
after gaining fame playing larger than life characters , rush flips everything around for this role , using his energy to depict the quiet desperation of a man slowly realizing that the solution to his troubles may be worse than the original problems . 
although she gets far too little screen time , jamie lee curtis imbues louisa with a depth greater than the screenplay provides her . 
of the central characters , she is the only one that exhibits maturity and genuine self-confidence . 
curtis is one of my favorite female actors ; whiplash smart , sultry and charismatic , she deserves more than supporting roles . 
speaking of supporting characters , there are some great ones here . 
harold pinter is amusing as harry's uncle benny , who pops up throughout the story in a number of creative ways . 
also shoring up the proceedings is jon polito as a corrupt banker and dylan baker , who is a riot as a united states general straight out of the dr . strangelove school of armed patriotism . 
but the most important secondary performers are leonor varela and brendan gleeson , both outstanding as two wounded activists . 
their presence adds weight to the story , reminding us that beyond the charades of the leading men , there are real people that have suffered greatly over the politics connected to the canal . 
director john boorman adds additional verisimilitude by shooting the film on location . 
instead of using panama city merely as a colorful backdrop , he adroitly weaves in footage of all aspects of life there . 
the metropolis , described by one character as " casablanca without heroes " pulsates with life , underling the folly of the two foreigners playing dangerous games that could have a disastrous impact on a great many people . 
 " the tailor of panama " succeeds because the principals behind it were bright enough to make it more than a simple entertainment . 
perhaps it's time for me to say a little about my reading habits . 
i really do like to read , and i've enjoyed many books in my lifetime . 
my problem is that i'm a slow reader , and not very dedicated -- i'll enjoy portions of a book and then set it down for months at a time ( it's taken me the last six weeks to get through the first one hundred pages of anna karenina , even though i'm loving the book ) . 
in addition to this , i typically don't read anything created after the 19th century . 
the only reason i bother with this bit of information is because i feel bad admitting , time after time , that i haven't read any of the books on which these films are based ( the only exception , i believe , is great expectations ) . 
however , i don't think it should be necessary to read the book beforehand in order to judge the quality of the film . 
needless to say , i haven't read the elmore leonard novel out of sight , on which steven soderbergh's new film is based . 
i can't say how faithful of an adaptation it is , or if it lives up to leonard's vision . 
i can say that it's a terrific film , with sharp acting , great dialogue , and pumping full of energy and style injected by soderbergh . 
it's certainly a nice distraction from 1998's lineup of brainless blockbusters , all hopelessly wishing that size mattered . 
out of sight proves that it doesn't . 
i had originally written george clooney off as a one-note actor , incapable of depth but occasionally showing a little flair . 
after seeing his latest performance in this film , i've changed my mind -- this guy can act , but he also has that forceful presence that most certainly will make him one of those $20 million superstars . 
here , he plays jack foley , a middle aged guy who robs banks for a living . 
he does it because it's fun , i think , but the film opens with him getting caught because his car won't start . 
he goes to jail -- which is interesting -- only to break out five cinematic minutes later with the help of his friend , buddy ( ving rhames ) . 
we're then introduced to karen sisco ( jennifer lopez ) , a u . s . marshall who , conveniently , is waiting with a shotgun as jack escapes . 
fortunately , they take her hostage , and she and jack spend some quality time in the trunk together as buddy drives them to safety . 
the central conflict arises when both jack and karen become obsessed with one another , though their respective jobs make them superficially incompatible . 
we soon learn that the film is not told in sequence ( and , since this is a gritty crime comedy , flashbacks of pulp fiction should arise ) . 
at first , i kind of felt that it was a gimmick , but i guess it was a gimmick in pulp fiction , too . 
it's a fun gimmick , though , and soderbergh treats the material with enough humor that everything comes off naturally . 
i've only seen a few of soderbergh's films ( i was impressed both with kafka and sex , lies , and videotape ) , but i think he's excellent at what he does . 
he's an artist without making it obvious , and without being pretentious , which is always admirable . 
he uses tricks , yes ( lots of freeze-frame stuff here ) , but it all adds to the smooth and quirky currents in the film . 
as i said , clooney is terrific , and he's matched by lopez . 
lopez is , of course , beautiful , but she can act , too . 
i can sense that she's honing in on her skills , for she comes off more natural here than she has in any of her previous ventures ( not that stone gave her much help in the loathsome u-turn ) . 
the two actors have arresting chemistry with one another -- the best scene in the film , by far , is the seduction scene . 
the brilliance of this scene is also due , in part , to soderbergh , for he cuts back and forth from their quiet discussion in a bar to the physical act which takes place a few minutes later . 
the scene is a series of soft nuances and glances , layered upon light dialogue , and the result is one of the better love scenes in recent cinema -- meaningful and engrossing . 
the supporting cast is strong , led by the always-reliable ving rhames . 
dennis farina , who plays karen's father , is good , as is don cheadle as the profoundly stupid villain . 
steve zahn , who plays jack's nearly-brain dead accomplice glenn , steals all of his scenes ( and that's in a film where every scene is already at a high level ) . 
all of the actors are helped by the dialogue and the intelligently-constructed script by scott frank . 
out of sight is certainly a light film , although there are a few heavy moments that will linger in the memory . 
overall , i can recommend it simply as great entertainment . 
not every film has to change your life , and it's nice to see a movie that uses the art to tell a great story and simply to entertain its viewers . 
as for the book , this film is good enough to make me believe that there might be something in the text worth looking at . 
note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
among my fanatical ticker tape-worshipping friends , there's one who happens to share the same philosophy espoused by the central character in darren aronofsky's darkly original pi : the entire stock market can be reduced to nothing but a series of patterns which , through analysis , will produce information to accurately forecast future behaviour . 
 ( an example of the mentality involved : if the stock price goes up like this , and then down like that , and then sharply up this way , it then will go * this * way . ) 
while i freely admit that i know less than nothing about the market ( knowledge check : prices up -- good ; prices down -- bad ; most of the time , at least ) and hence really couldn't comment with any authority , it's always nonetheless struck me as an incredibly naive oversimplification of an astonishingly complex system ( and besides , if it were that simple , no doubt somebody would've already figured it all out ) . 
the difference in this case is that while my colleague ( an otherwise assuredly realistic individual ) truly believes in this in and of itself as a valid forecaster , pi uses this ideology as a device with which to investigate its character's psychosis . 
it's also vastly more convincing with its argument . 
 " mathematics is the language of the universe , " insists genius protagonist maximillian cohen ( sean gullette ) in a cool , mantra-like voice-over which repeats throughout the picture . 
since nature can be expressed in numbers , and there are patterns everywhere in nature , he reasons with eminent logic that finding the patterns will allow him to predict anything -- the ups and downs of the stock market , how many games the yankees will win this year , the flavour of jam i'm going to put on my toast tomorrow morning . 
obsessed with finding the proverbial key to the universe , max lives in paranoid , self-imposed solitude in a seedy nyc chinatown apartment , single-mindedly toiling away with his monstrous homemade computer system . 
sullenly withdrawn and plauged by debilitating migraines , the elusive pursuit of a mysterious 216-digit number his machine spits out one day is driving him into madness . 
the story , then , is basically an eccentricity , but it's a clever , astute eccentricity , perceptively zeroing in on the modern mistrust of mathematical reductionism ; in an age where a dominant societal phobia is one's individualism being replaced by a series of numeric identifiers , max's all-consuming penchent for numbers at once creates a lingering , unsettling mood . 
it helps matters that he's not a particularly likable protagonist . 
all attempts of friendliness from neighbours are curtly rebuffed by max , a spindly , neurotic-looking individual who hasn't the time to indulge in pleasantries . 
for a film which puts its lead character front and center ( mr . gullette appears in virtually every scene ) , pi takes a refreshing and effective approach in avoiding conventional aesthetics ; because of our ambivalence with max , we're not so much avidly rooting for him to triumph with a moment of epiphany as we're following him through this plot with a sense of mixed dread and morbid fascination -- it's more disturbing journey than quest . 
still , we do care about max's fate . 
teetering on the edge of dementia , he winds up being pursued by two different groups which want to pick his brain , both fronted by deliciously perky , resolutely cheerful representatives with inevitably duplictious intentions . 
as we know , in films where paranoia is a dominant element ( see the truman show's laura linney character ) , or for that matter , in real life , it's always the ones who never stop smiling at you and are overly friendly that are the ones of which to be wary . 
pi , a film that addresses patterns , itself intentionally adheres to an identifiable pattern cycle -- headache scene ; important revelation or bit of plot development ; pill-popping montage ; hallucinatory nightmare ( with decidedly cronenberg-esque undertones -- few other directors are as equally adept in bridging unsettling concepts and body-themed horror ) ; nosebleeding reality . 
the repetitiveness , far from being tedious , is effectively maddening ; more than anything , the picture aims to get under our skins and take in events from max's claustrophobic perspective . 
in this regard , it wildly succeeds due to mr . aronofsky's striking direction . 
it's a rarity that a film so completely immerses itself into a protagonist's warped perspective of his surrounding , and high contrast black-and-white cinematography combined with constant usage of extreme close-ups lend a heightened sense of paranoia to the proceedings . 
 ( in some scenes , the stark composition in conjunction with the lumbering approach by mr . gullette make his character curiously resemble a latter-day max schreck , from nosferatu . ) 
using savage , jittery lensing and rapid cuts to create a sense of disorientation , the picture is often dizzying to behold , and max's effective isolationism is emphasized by shots from the so-called snorri cam , which keep him in plain focus while the environment races by in blurred bursts . 
pi's raw , aggressive visuals are reminiscent of david lynch's early work ( in particular , eraserhead ) . 
the film's sinister tone splashes onto the screen immediately with a dazzling opening credit sequence ably backed by a sly electronic score by clint mansell , and gradually increases in intensity . 
still , amidst all its kafkaesque qualities and overall dispassionate mood , pi does occasionally display a sense of humour . 
at one point , marcy dawson ( pamela hart , great fun ) entices max with the offer of an invaluable treasure : a one-of-a-kind . . . 
computer chip . 
 " isn't it beautiful , " she coos . 
a showcase for mr . aronofsky's technical virtuosity ( made for $60 000 , it's since gone on to capture acclaim at the 1998 sundance film festival ) , pi is an intriguingly cerebral story which , ironically , is perhaps the most purely visceral film of the year . 
upon arriving at the theater during the opening credits , i took my seat and prepared myself for what appeared to be " hellraiser meets the crow " . 
but as soon as kiefer sutherland began speaking the narrative monologue , describing " the strangers " and their reasons for contacting human beings , i was hooked . 
there was something especially compelling about the nature of his voice . 
i knew from the start that i was going to witness the actions of his character rather than the actor attempting the character . 
sutherland played the role as a true veteran . 
upon the completion of his monologue , the camera arrives on sutherland in such a fashion that you can only wonder how long alex proyas spent on cinematography . 
i would imagine , for a film of this caliber , that maximum hours of work were spent where they were needed the most . 
the film flowed beautifully . 
as i was being taken through the intricate regions of the " dark city " , a clever plot began to unravel , to the point where the last time i had seen such clever plot twists were in " the usual suspects " . 
not to mention a series of special effects that would make james cameron literally turn green with envy . 
but if you're not exactly the biggest sci-fi fan , caveat emptor . 
get ready for the atmostpheric darkness of " 12 monkeys " or " the crow " without the boredom or depression . 
the concept of the plot is as mindstretching as " 12 monkeys " was , however , so be prepared and be sophisticated . 
and imagine a picture that finally does justice to the comic-book-gone-feature-film fad that hollywood has recently become abusive of . 
dark city simply puts " spawn " to shame . 
in fact , during the climax of the film i couldn't help but feel the strong presence of an " akira " -esque explosion throughout the general feeling of the movie . 
so my initial predictions were wrong . 
this film is anything but the meloncholy of " hellraiser " parts one through five . 
i'm never one to base a film entirly on special effects , so know that when i give dark city 
it's actually because the film contained all of the neccessary ingredients to keep me entertained and awake from storyline to plot twists to camerawork to even ( tsk , tsk ) special effects . 
not since contact have i recieved such deep insight into the way the human mind operates and never this year have i been so blown away . 
the best film i've seen all year , and easily one of the best i've ever seen 
kadosh means sacred in hebrew . 
amos gitai's fictional work , after spending most of his career doing documentaries , is a grim story about a failed hasidic marriage , even though the marriage is a loving one . 
the marriage will symbolize the clash of cultures in modern israel between the native israeli's modern viewpoint toward religion and the political savvy hasidic's intolerable one , as both groups are vying for control of the secular government . 
gitai ( devarim/yom yom ) is a labor party leftist , who believes that if the rigid hasidic ever got control of the government , it would sound the death knell of israel . 
the emphasis of the film is on how the ultra-orthodox jews of that sect live by the letter of the torah in everything they do and how they subjugate the women to accept their vision of god's law from only the male's view . 
that if they ever got control of the country , their intolerant attitude would subjugate the country the same way the women are . 
the story takes place in jerusalem's jewish quarters called mea shearim , where we are taken down sinewy back streets with placards pasted on the walls , and into the crowded apartments and prayer rooms where the protagonists live out their idea of the proper jewish life , which is much different than the way most jews live in israel . 
this is a controversial film , in that the women are unhappy and the male attitudes are to such an extreme patriarchal ones , that the film is bound to anger most viewers , no matter their belief . 
it is a slow-moving , meticulous film , that grabs hold of you by the collar and never lets go . 
the force of what is seen , though filmed in an objective manner , never taking a cheap shot at the hasidim , is nevertheless bound to leave questions about the nature of such a practice of strict observance . 
the film is meant to be critical of such a rigid people , as it implies how they kill the spirit of everything they touch and with their extreme phobic attitudes , it makes it impossible for them to unite the country when they can't at present live in harmony with their own people , and it would be even more impossible to imagine them living with their arab neighbors in peace . 
the film opens as meir rises at dawn and goes through his prayer ritual , where every prayer is made to the virtues of god . 
he even thanks god that he didn't make him a woman . 
his wife rivka accepts the fate she was born into and looks at him from the next bed where she sleeps separately according to hasidic custom . 
she looks at him with glistening eyes , not questioning the laws or rebelling against her secondary role and how her religion keeps her from studying the talmud and having all the modern conveniences of life , and from seeing movies and tv . 
meir is a talmudic scholar . 
his father ( abu warda ) is a rabbi at the yeshiva . 
he has been married for ten years and his wife has not been able to give him a child . 
since the hasidim look upon a woman's role in life being only to conceive children , and cook and clean house for the man , while the man's role is to spend his time in prayer , therefore there is an insurmountable problem in this otherwise loving marriage . 
she receives an anonymous letter that states " a woman without a child is no better than dead . " 
meir's response , is that it is written like that in the talmud . 
meir's father tells him that the marriage contract must be broken : " a man who dies without progeny rips a page from the torah . " 
all the blame is placed on rivka , who is thought of as unpure as the reason for her being barren . 
she will go through countless ritual baths to cleanse herself , as her rigid mother ( koenig ) dunks her in the holy water and says a ritual prayer for the 12 times she is dunked as an homage to the 12 tribes of israel . 
their religion doesn't permit them to be examined extensively by a doctor . 
rivka goes on the sly and finds out that it is her husband who is sterile , but she cannot tell him that because of their religion . 
so when meir's father chooses a younger woman for his son , she is exiled to live alone in a cold apartment in the same jewish quarters . 
rivka's spirited younger sister malka does not want to get married but wants to live a more liberated life . 
she has a long time romantic relationship with a fellow hasidic yaakov . 
but , because of the way they were both raised , she is still a virgin . 
when yaakov joined the israeli army to fight in lebanon , something his sect is not allowed to do , he is thereby banished from the sect even though he is still a believer . 
he now works as a singer in a nightclub . 
malka's mother is worried that her daughter won't get married , so she arranges with the rabbi for her to marry yossef , someone whom she doesn't love . 
yossef is a very stern follower of the order , he is also a political activist who drives around the city in a sound-truck with a bull-horn urging jews to stick together and fight their godless enemies . 
the two sisters are close and languidly discuss their options , with rivka telling her sister to accept the marriage , it will make her happy ; but , while malka is reluctantly forced into accepting it , she has other plans to ruin this bogus marriage . 
the harshest scene in the film is on malka's wedding night . 
yossef prays to god for a child and then robotically gets malka to spread her legs , and without the least bit of affection , only a nervousness shown on his part for the function he supplies , as he goes inside her and rams her hard , thrusting away until the act is completed and then retiring without a word or gesture of love . 
the sisters have choices , like everyone else in life does . 
but the choices are obliterated by one's beliefs , circumstances , and inward nature , and how difficult it is to carry out those choices if it goes completely against the way one is brought up . 
for the sisters , the choices are life or death ones . 
gitai by closing in on the daily rituals , tight living quarters and close-knit community , has shown how difficult these choices are for those who have never seen another world and have been kept in the dark all their life . 
the film ends with the forlorn malka walking atop of jerusalem and looking down upon it as an outsider would , and everything seems strange to her , all the things she once thought of as being set in stone are now harsh memories , as she has made her choice , and the price of that choice is very heavy indeed . 
the film " magnolia " can be compared to a simple flower as its title and movie poster suggests . 
the dozens of characters introduced and developed are like the petals on the flower . 
they all come from the same stem and as the flower begins to develop they grow farther and farther apart . 
the numerous characters in the film are all closely connected no matter how different they are from one another socially . 
from a humiliated but kind cop to an aging game show host , each one of these characters is suffering the same kind of pain . 
they are each seriously lonely and seek the perfect companion to end this loneliness . 
whether this companion is a distant family member or a spouse , each character begs for one and spends the whole film searching for the perfect one . 
 " magnolia " is a clever , well thought out film from prodigy director-writer paul thomas anderson of " boogie nights " fame . 
the detailed character analyses and the powerful script make " magnolia " memorable . 
however , what really is impressive is that even though there are tons of characters in several unrelated stories , the film is never confusing . 
anderson's control over transitioning from one story to another story is masterful . 
he also knows exactly when to cut to another subplot since not one of " magnolia's " scenes drag on too long . 
any three hour film that does not deliver even one uninteresting scene is definitely worth recommending . 
from the fascinating beginning to the risky yet surprisingly satisfying ending the film just doesn't get boring . 
it is obvious that anderson put a lot of time into connecting each subplot . 
this is the ultimate game of six degrees of separation . 
every character is connected to every other character by at the most two degrees . 
for example , cop john c . reilly is connected to game show host phillip baker hall through hall's daughter melora walters who once went on a date with reilly . 
the fact that each character is so different from the others yet so similar shows that there are universal pains that all classes , races , and genders suffer . 
anderson's explanation to prove this point is both accurate and convincing . 
the only mistake anderson made in trying to connect his characters was by making his actors all sing an aimee mann song simultaneously . 
this was foolish not only because it was unbelievable and hilariously erroneous but also because it had a broadway musical feel to it and this movie is about as far apart from your typical broadway musical than you can get . 
the performances in " magnolia " are perfection . 
this is a classic example of flawless casting and flawless ensemble acting . 
anderson allows many of hollywood's best supporting actors to blossom at what they do best , character acting . 
all of the main characters in each story are perfect because they are able to reveal more emotions and attitudes in their brief time on the screen then most movie stars can do in a feature length film . 
worth noting is tom cruise , who stepped out of his usual superficial starring role and into a funny but depressing tour de force performance . 
he was probably noticed more than the other actors in the film by award givers because his role here is so much different and impressive than those in the past ( however any actor in this film could be nominated for best supporting actor without any complaints ) the only problem i had with the acting was that a few of the characters felt seriously edited down such as melinda dillon's character as phillip baker hall's wife . 
she seemed to be thrown in towards the end and i felt very little sympathy for her because i had not seen her enough earlier in the film . 
 " magnolia " uses several effective metaphors to describe its characters . 
anderson has the talent to make the audience sympathetic towards numerous people in only a few hours . 
to see that anderson is able to perfectly portray this many different types of people shows that he has a keen sense of diversity . 
diversity is what makes a director successful for a long period of time . 
i predict a lot of diversity and success from anderson in the future . 
no humans were harmed , tested or tasted in the making of this film . 
all recipes are fictions . 
twentieth century fox does not condone cannibalism . 
a psychological thriller that will scare you to the depth of your soul ! 
director/writer antonia bird shows us that the most terrifying horror is not provided by giant beasts , but instead by monsters lurking in ourselves . . 
 " . . they were a party of settlers in covered wagon times and they had to resent to cannibalism in order to stay alive . . " 
this true story , briefly mentioned in " the shining " , has no turned into a 143 minutes long motion picture . 
in 1847 , the united states was a land of pioneers , of gold-starved americans making their way west . 
it was a period of manifest destiny , the inevitability of the country extending its boundaries , stretching out its arms and consuming all the land it could . 
capt . john boyd ( guy pearce ) has become both a " hero " and a victim during this period of relentless consumption . . . 
in ways he could never have imagined . 
boyd's journey to hell begins when he is awarded for an act of cowardice during a horrific mexican-american war battle earns him banishment to a desolate military outpost , a waystation for western travelers in the barren and icy sierra nevada mountains in california . 
upon his arrival he is greeted by a small , motley group of soldiers , including his commanding officer , hart ( jeffrey jones ) , a previously intelligent and sophisticated man who has lost his aristocratic origin in the heat of battle and has pretty much given up on life ; toffler ( jeremy davies ) , the fort's personal emissary to the lord ; knox ( stephen spinella ) , the veterinarian that plays doctor , who never met a bottle of whiskey he didn't like ; reich ( neal mcdonough ) , the no-nonsense soldier of the group ; and the seriously " over-medicated " cleaves ( david arquette ) , a cook whose meals are inspired more by peyote than culinary ambitions . 
into this cold , bleak and bizarre world staggers a stranger , colqhoun ( robert carlyle ) , a half-starved scot who had been traveling with a group of settlers until they became snowbound . 
seeking refuge in a cave , they soon ran out of food - and were forced to consume one another . 
colqhoun barely escaped becoming an hors d'oeuvre himself . 
our heroes then decide to journey through the mountains to find the survivors , and colqhoun tags along to help out . 
soon it becomes clear that colqhoun's tale has ramifications beyond cannibalism and the will to survive . 
it involves an old indian myth called weendigo , which states that a man who eats the flesh of another steals that person's strength , spirit and very essence . 
his hunger becomes an insatiable craving : the more he eats , the more he wants , and the stronger he becomes . 
there can never be enough , and death is the only escape . . 
it's all fairly sickening and you have to have a healthy stomach to see the whole movie through . 
as professionally made as the movie is , you have to wonder who they thought would come piling into the theater to see this . 
teen-age horror fans won't care because none of the soldiers look remotely like neve campell . 
older folks might show up when they hear that the movie is actually a satire about the pioneer spirit , but they'll be disappointed once all the raw meat starts getting waved in their faces . 
but jokes aside , this is a film that is well worth watching . 
it has wonderful and mature characters , that few horror film s can boast of and a strangely effective story that continues to electrify you till the end . 
the two main characters are also the most interesting . 
boyd is a simple , honest man tiered of war , killing and fear . 
his sacred wish is to live a normal , quite life away from gunpowder and blood . 
colqhoun is different . 
he proves that a man , on the brink of death , would do anything to stay alive , including sacrificing his own soul . 
he believes so much in this indian myth that he starts to change physically . 
it is the power of the human mind and conviction that make miracles happen . 
the atmosphere in " ravenous " is macabre and bizarre , scary and surreal . 
completely isolated from the rest of the world , stands fort spencer . 
here time stands still , and nothing changes . 
the inhabitants are soldiers driven by war and pillage . 
they are all somehow losers of society that have been banished -- men that are used to killing and have not done anything else in their entire life . 
men that are nothing , and has nothing to loose . 
the result is some sort of cabin fever . 
cannibalism is more like a sick game for them . 
since they find no pleasure in living , they find some excitement in killing and dying . 
it's like " who's going to die first ? " 
the unchangeable icy landscape , where birds do not sing and even wind doesn't move the leaves on the trees , resembles kubrick's " the shining " . 
it's hard to not get mad here ! 
one of the scary aspects of the film is a strange connection that the viewer establishes with the characters , and starts to understand them , although they have turned into half crazed killers . 
music is another factor that strengthens the atmosphere . 
a strange musical score , composed by michael nyman ( the piano ) and damon albarn , that often seems out of place , and in complete contrast to the image , somehow reflects the characters' twisted reactions on the world and their situation . 
the director herself stated that it was " ok to laugh " during the picture . 
and i must admit that it is often very funny , in a strange way ( such as the wonderful quote : " . . it's 
lonely being a cannibal . 
you don't get that many friends . . . " 
or when colqhoun is quoting ben franklin , saying " eat to live . 
don't live to eat . " ) . but 
mostly it is frightening and shocking as it goes deeper into the minds of these strange men and we witness their psychological change . 
every actor does a great job . 
especially robert carlyle as the sinister and intelligent cannibal , and guy pearce as the moral and honest soldier , nagged by his undeserved honor . 
this strange couple resemble lestat and lois in neil jordan's 'interview with the vampire' . 
actually there are many amusing parallels and connections to vampire movies , since the topics are so alike . 
 " ravenous " starts wonderfully and continues to shock and scare until it gets to the finale , where it looses focus and gets too primitive and rather boring . 
however these little failures don't diminish the impression . 
this is a bizarre dark comedy about the human mind and its change in different situations . 
it is a scary fable about the monster that lurks in everyone's soul , a dark side which we're all trying to hide -- but it's there -- always . 
it is one of the most frightening and successful horror films since " the shining " . 
 " . . i said no food . 
i didn't say there was nothing to eat . . . " 
- colqhoun , ravenous 
 " good will hunting " is two movies in one : an independent take on the struggle of four boston pals and a traditional hollywood , " prodigy child " film complete with upbeats , downfalls , sporadically moving situations and plenty , plenty of shtick . 
unusually directed by gus van sant , " good will hunting " overcomes the banalities of its story by affirming the emergence of fresh , new talent . 
the film stars matt damon as will hunting as a mathematical , rebellious whiz kid inadvertly discovered by a college professor ( stellan skarsgard ) , who places him under psychological supervision with robin williams . 
in a nutshell , that's it . 
the core of the " good will hunting " is damon , who infuses the script ( co- written by " chasing amy's " ben affleck ) with just the right amount of warmth , sensitivity and humanity to accentuate his position as a refreshing multi- talented performer . 
but it's the acting that hits the mark , and damon hits all the right notes , flying over robin williams' deja-vu role ( " awakenings " was written all over this ) as a devastated shrink who has closed all contact with society due to his wife's tragic death . 
damon effortlessly blends the carelesness of a gregarious , confused thug with the absorbing ingeniousness of someone like einstein . 
his rich , complex character is the pulp of " good will hunting . " 
everything else pales in comparison . 
 " good will hunting " exposes the lack of profoundness of deliberately schmaltzy storytelling , but , unlike " little man tate " or " phenomenon " , it doesn't set up its story in a black and white , point a to point b be manner , but as the saga of an extraordinary individual whose feasibility for success doesn't automatically signify he must make easy , familiar choices , like the protagonists in the aforementioned . 
curdled is a deliciously dark and witty black comedy , but its humour won't appeal to everyone . 
to be specific , let me give you an example . 
do you know in pulp fiction where jules and vincent go on brain detail after marvin and his head accidentally get separated ? 
if you thought that was completely tasteless and unfunny , don't see curdled . 
on the other hand , if you found that sequence to be pretty funny , you have the sense of humour that curdled is aimed at . 
our film's heroine , gabriela , played by angela jones , is a woman obssessively curious about murder and serial killers ; she even keeps a scrapbook of news articles . 
luckily for her , miami is being plagued by a serial killer rampage - her scrapbook is getting pretty big . 
the killer's nickname in the press is the blue blood killer , because he preys on older rich socialite women , and he's played by william baldwin ( this is not a spoiler ) . 
one particularly striking m . o . 
on the blue blood killer is his propensity to decapitate his victims . 
gabriela is watching television one day when she spots an advertisement for a firm whose line of work is perfectly attuned to her interests . 
she immediately quits her job , and signs on with pfcs , which stands for post-forensic cleaning service . 
no points for guessing what they do . 
her workmates are confused by gabriela's fascination with murder ; to them , it's just a day job . 
there's a hilarious locker room scene where they debate whether decapitated heads can talk , and what they would say . 
gabriela's partner , elena , played by mel gorham , is particularly perturbed by gabriela's wide-eyed fascination , and becomes really upset when gabriela volunteers them to clean up the blue blood killer's latest scene - they're the messiest , you see . 
unbeknownst to them , the last victim left something on the scene which would id the blue blood killer , so he's also heading over there . . 
the comparison to pulp fiction earlier on was not accidental - quentin tarantino executive-produced this film , which began life as a short film he saw at a film festival . 
apparently tarantino was so impressed that he helped braddock convert this into a feature-length film . 
there are other parallels - the star of curdled is angela jones ( the top billing goes to william baldwin , but really , jones is the central character ) , who's probably best known for her role as esmerelda villalobos , the death-obssessed taxi driver in pulp fiction . 
that role was written specifically for jones based upon her similar character in the aforementioned short film , curdled jr . 
jones is great in curdled - she's wonderfully funny and maintains an amusing wide-eyed naive curiousity about murder without compromising her character's innocence or likeability . 
she can express so much with one lift of her eyebrow . 
it's a great performance . 
reb braddock's direction is extremely sharp and clever , toeing the line between black humour and bad taste . 
the best scene in the film is an outrageously funny sequence involves jones and dancing - any more than that would be a spoiler . 
the opening credit sequence is also inventive and amusing . 
of course , it's impossible to really take this stuff seriously , but then again you're not really supposed to - braddock knows the audience is in on the joke , and makes it a fun little romp as a result . 
the one drawback of curdled is that it was based on a short film , and it feels like it ; the material is just stretched too thin in order to fulfill a feature length running time , and some parts just seem to drag . 
while its running time is already a short 94 minutes , it could really stand to lose twenty minutes or so to give it better pacing . 
curdled seems destined to be a nice cult film for miramax . 
it'll be interesting to see if it will appeal to mainstream audiences as well . 
it is often said by his fans that hal hartley movies are an acquired taste . 
indeed . 
while perhaps less dangerous than tequila shooters or bungee-jumping , they require no less amount of physical stamina and concentration . 
i felt rewarded at the end of henry fool ; this movie creeps up on you-at a slow 139 minutes , i mean creeps-and despite the final shot's ambiguity , i left completely satisfied . 
henry fool ( " used to have an ? e' " ) arrives at garbageman simon grim's house , claims the vacant basement apartment , and almost instantly inspires simon ( urbaniak ) to take up writing-henry ( martin donovan look-alike ryan ) is an ex-convict , a once-great author who has been " exiled and marginalized " by the publishing community because of his criminal activity . 
simon's poetry turns him into a local sensation , as it causes mute women to sing , high-school girls to swoon , and councilmen to rile against its " pornographic " content . 
meanwhile , henry seduces both simon's dependent mother ( porter ) and immature sister ( sundance queen posey ) with philosophical babble ( which is by turns brilliant and inane ) and breathy animal lust . 
these story elements result in climaxes both inevitable and unpredictable ; the teacher-student relationship formed between henry and simon eventually reverses itself . 
henry fool is sprinkled with hartley-ian flourishes : simon drinks milk from " udderley's " ; the big teen hang-out is called " world of donuts " ; simon wears his garbageman's uniform throughout ; the editing style is decidedly elliptical . . . 
 ( which is key to the conclusion's said ambiguity ) . 
the performances by the three leads are abrasive at first , self-consciously " quirky " ; the introductory scenes are a chore . 
these people do grow on you because they convey genuine passion , a belief in themselves , and because they have long-term goals ; henry and simon may drink a lot of budweiser and hang out on the streetcorner , but they aren't pop slackers . 
the story is rather classical : the tutor is a better talker than a doer , raised on books ; the timid tutee has innate talent his master only dreams of . 
 ( shades of film school . . . ) 
the finished film is epic in its proportions for a story so small , and the final third does test one's patience , yet henry fool is tight , hardly excessive in its length . 
how refreshing to see a movie this long in 1998 devoted entirely to character . 
and unless i nodded off , not a single building exploded . 
this , hartley's seventh feature , is contemplative about " the artist " ; fortunately , we never get a sampling of simon's work , and it's a testament to the actors and the screenplay that by the end we can surmise what sort of thoughts would pour from these writers' pens . 
most people fit into two different categories : you either love woody allen , or you hate his guts . 
my family , for the most part , hates him and his movies . 
i think he's very funny , but his shtick has gotten forced and contrived over the years . 
so maybe taking his body away was the best decision any producer could have thought of . 
unrestrained by physical boundaries , allen's humor comes shining through . 
those who had problems with his physical appearance will be able to join the rest of us in laughing at allen's intelligent observations of life . 
those who had problems with his verbal comedy may want to skip this one . 
in 1995 , a film was introduced to audiences which sparked their imaginations and showed them something they'd never seen before . 
toy story used state-of-the-art computer technology and presented a world of toys who would come alive when no humans were present . 
many critics will call that a better film , but i believe they only say that because it was a completely original motion picture . 
antz , however , has upped the ante considerably . 
disney's a bug's life isn't due out for another two months , and dreamworks seems to have received the better end of the deal . 
by beating disney out , they have satisfied the audience's thirst for computer-animated films . 
but don't let that fool you : disney is definitely not scared . 
in the past two years , competitions have broken out between studios . 
in 1997 , it was the volcano duel . 
in my opinion , dante's peak came out way ahead of its predecessor , both in time and in quality . 
volcano had an original premise , but destroyed that with some very ridiculous situations . 
in 1998 , there are twice as many competing films . 
first was the comet competition , and armageddon blew away it's cheesily dramatic competitor deep impact . 
but now , it's even more interesting , as one beloved studio ( disney ) goes up against the newcomer ( dreamworks ) . 
who will prevail ? 
time will tell , but i'm sure that mr . mouse has nothing to fear . 
this may sound like i didn't like antz ; on the contrary , i'd put it up there with toy story . 
but due to it's pg rating , many parents may be put off by some of the dialogue which shouldn't appear in disney's version . 
some of the dialogue in antz pushes the envelope for a family-oriented film . 
sexual innuendoes and profanity pop up occasionally , which makes dreamworks' animated feature geared more for an adult crowd . 
the humor is also written especially for adults , though many kids were laughing in the theater i attended . 
this is the type of film that should be made for families more often : entertaining for kids and entertaining for parents . 
antz begins with a hilarious monologue which seems a meld between woody allen's shtick and franz kafka's metamorphosis , the short story of a man who wakes up to discover himself as a bug . 
z ( allen ) is a troubled ant , believing he was not made to be a worker . 
 " when you're the middle child in a family of five million . . . " he comments about his neglected childhood . 
one night , z is sitting in a bar with his friend weaver ( sylvester stallone ) , discussing his pathetic place in life . 
in walks princess bala ( sharon stone ) , whom no one recognizes without a crown . 
bala asks z is he would like to dance , and they engage in a pulp fiction-esque dance while everyone else is following the leader . 
after discovering that she is the princess , z falls in love , but there's a problem : bala is getting married to general mandible ( gene hackman ) , a ruthless leader who merely wants to control a better and stronger colony . 
in order to do that , he must eliminate not only the queen ( anne bancroft ) , but the weakest of the colony , namely the worker ants . 
but to get rid of the queen , he needs to get rid of the loyal army ants who would be willing to die for her . 
he and colonel cutter ( christopher walkin ) come up with a plan to send the loyal ants off to battle , where they will surely be killed . 
the queen is reluctant at first , but decides it is best for the colony . 
meanwhile , z wants to meet bala again , and he asks weaver , an army ant , to switch places with him . 
so z gets sent off to battle , but he manages to survive the slaughter by the termites . 
the battle sequence is absolutely stunning , though you may have flashbacks to starship troopers , which contained a very similar sequence . 
however , antz and that 1997 film were both in production around the same time , so the similarities are merely coincidence . 
the second half of the film revolves around z's kidnapping of bala , and their search for a mythical place called insectopia . 
there , an ant can be his own boss and have all the food he wants . 
the adventures z and bala get into are surprisingly high in tension , especially one involving a magnifying glass . 
looming over the targets like the spaceships from independence day ( in fact , i'm just going to assume that the producers referenced id4 intentionally ) . 
the ants look up in awe , and then a beam of fire blasts into the ground . 
visually , it's an exciting rush of adrenaline . 
but don't be fooled . . . 
little kids shouldn't see this , as they may just try and copy it . 
after seeing antz , i vowed never to intentionally step on an ant again . 
hopefully , children will learn that killing ants is rather cruel . 
as an animated film , antz is probably the best you will find to date . 
visually , it's as stunning as what dreams may come . 
the best aspect of animation is the fact that the characters aren't limited by gravity . 
they can take ridiculous situations and make them seem plausible . 
one great moment involves a mass of worker ants bunching up to form a wrecking ball . 
the animation is so perfect that you can virtually see every single ant on the ball . 
however , the most exhilarating scene involves bala getting stuck to the bottom of a young boy's shoe . 
it's truly a great example of film making at its finest . 
with computer technology , the animators have carefully made the ants' faces look similar to the actors providing the voices . 
the best example would have to be barbatus ( danny glover ) . 
at one point , you can even see the pores on his face ( although , i doubt ants have pores . . . 
do they ? ) . 
barbatus also has a touching but rather gruesome scene as he has his final words with z without a body . 
young kids may be disturbed by the site of a dismembered head , but a good deal of humor is derived ( more appropriate for adults , of course ) . 
disney's a bug's life looks good , but i don't know if they will be able to best dreamworks' newest animated feature in terms of animation . 
if not , then dreamworks will have done something no other studio could do : go head to head with the big mouse , and knock him down ( yes , anastasia was good , but not nearly as good as even the worst of disney ) . 
vocal talent is always essential to an animated feature , and antz has one of the best line-ups seen since toy story . 
in fact , it far exceeds that one . 
woody allen has always been funny , but here he transcends most of what he's done in the past few years . 
without a body , his comic timing is the most noticeable thing . 
in fact , i'm pretty sure that the writers let him improvise a lot of his lines . 
sharon stone as bala shows off some of her comic ability , though for the most part , stone works best as a dramatic actress . 
sylvester stallone ( teamed up with stone once again ) is beginning to solidify his statement that he wants to be an actor , not a typecast action star . 
after a snub at the oscars last year , stallone is proving himself as the serious ( or comedic , as illustrated here ) actor that he is . 
gene hackman is superb as the gruff-talking general , almost doing another take on his crimson tide persona . 
christopher walkin is probably more noticed by his voice , and so many people will remember him from such hits as batman returns . 
anne bancroft has a minimal role , but she's effective nonetheless . 
danny glover has a small role , but he does a very , very good job . 
dan aykroyd and jane curtin also lend their voices as two lovesick , euro-trash bees--both are very unrecognizable , especially aykroyd . 
jennifer lopez plays a worker ant who falls in love with weaver , although most people won't recognize her voice either . 
many people will recognize grant shaud's voice as the foreman . 
he played miles on the tv show murphy brown . 
this is definitely a huge cast with some high-profile names , and it will definitely help it's grosses . 
of course , you can probably tell where a lot of the $60 million budget went to , also . 
directors eric darnell and lawrence guterman are relative newcomers ( though guterman did direct a 1994 feature , headless ! ) . 
but both show an incredible talent for this type of a picture . 
tense at times , and very funny throughout , the two hold this film together like professionals . 
the screenplay by todd alcott and chris weitz is quite simple in plot , but it contains a lot of subtlety that makes the film more suitable for adults . 
kids will delight in the animation , while parents can laugh heartily at the humor . 
most of it will go over young children's heads . 
does that mean you shouldn't take kids to see it ? 
not at all . 
they will have a lot of fun watching this one . 
what is great is the themes that are given to us . 
part social commentary , part romance story , and part moral drama , antz gives everyone something to talk about , whether it be the animation , or the discussions of individualism and community . 
thankfully , it's not subtle in either aspects . 
antz is rated pg for mild language and some intense action . 
sometimes the language can be pushing the limits for a family movie , but the violence is what should keep kids at home . 
the battle scene has ants melting in acid , and bugs being speared to death . 
and the magnifying scene shows an ant disintegrate in the beam of sunlight . 
but other than that ( and some sexual innuendos ) , it's a perfect choice for some wholesome fun at the theaters . 
i doubt many children will understand the sexual innuendos unless they are old enough , but it's still advisable to leave really young children at home . 
have i confused you enough ? 
if you do take your kids , i recommend seeing the film with them , because more than likely , you'll enjoy it the most . 
that's the question i asked myself when venturing nervously into " the wedding singer , " the latest film to star the saturday night live alumnus . 
does he draw laughs from his sad , puppy dog expression and don't-hate-me-for-being-a-simpleton observations ? 
or do fans giggle when he screams at the top of his lungs at people ? 
or is it just the fact that he sings songs with silly lyrics that bowl audiences over ? 
well , there's a little bit of all of that in " the wedding singer " and while i exited the theater still not one hundred percent sure of mr . sandler's thing , i did have a surprisingly good time . 
that's because , in a nutshell , " the wedding singer " is one of the sweetest movies you're ever likely to come across . 
that's right . 
sweet . 
the humor in the film runs the gamut from dumb to mildly amusing to laugh-out-loud hysterical but the tone ? 
well , it's just lovely . 
i have to admit i was half-expecting farting armpit humor , gratuitous nudity , superfluous , cloying subplots , and some nasty , unnecessary violence . 
instead ? 
well , i've said it before . 
sweet . 
the year is 1985 and sandler plays robbie hart , the eponymous wedding singer , a job aspiring rock stars often settle for . 
when robbie's fianc ? e dumps him at his own altar , robbie gets depressed and turns to a plucky waitress called julia ( drew barrymore ) who has some problems of her own ( she's marrying a hunky junk bonds dealer who , unbeknownst to her , isn't that big on monogamy ) . 
it isn't giving anything away to say that robbie and julia fall in love . 
aww . . . 
sandler and barrymore are a good match and they're assisted by some terrific cameo appearances , including steve buscemi and jon lovitz , whose individual scenes are perhaps the funniest in the film . 
writer tim herlihy ( with uncredited assistance from carrie fisher ) keeps the story bubbling along to its predictable conclusion . 
it doesn't all work but it's handled with such light-heartedness that robbie and julia coming together generates more smiles than groans . 
herlihy and director frank coraci have done a great job of recreating the sights , sounds , and affectations of the 1980s . 
the soundtrack--an ever-present force in the film--is packed with wall-to-wall hits of the period , new wave upon new wave of songs from billy idol's " white wedding " to the smiths' " how soon is now ? " 
to culture club's " do you really want to hurt me ? " 
the mix of music and fashion would make " the wedding singer " a great double feature with " boogie nights . " 
if you grew up listening to the cure and a flock of seagulls and the psychedelic furs , then " the wedding singer " is bound to put a nostalgic hop in your stride . 
if you're a fan of the lovable , laughable adam sandler , well . . . 
let's just say that " the wedding singer " might well be the only film in recent memory to make * me * want to rent " happy gilmore . " 
jarvis cocker of pulp once said that he wrote common people after noticing mike leigh box-sets on the video shelves -- he had a feeling that economic deprivation was becoming a tourist experience for the well-off . 
maybe it's a classic case of displacement : it's easier to see jarvis' own lyrics ( obsessed with acrylic and wood chip on the wall ) as a fetishization of lowlife , rather than leigh's films . 
but it's worth being reminded that drab interiors and a couple of working-class characters don't make for a guarantee of 'authenticity' , let alone a good film . 
it's the triumph of secrets & lies , then , that it goes beyond gestures of sympathy for the common people into a probing of just what it means to seek 'authenticity' and honesty in everyday lives . 
following her adopted mother's funeral , hortense , a young black optometrist , sets out to find her birth mother , and is disturbed to find out that she is white . 
it is cynthia , a factory worker who lives in a shabby house with her perpetually moody daughter roxanne . 
cynthia's younger brother maurice is a successful photographer who has not seen his sister for ages , largely because of his wife's animosity towards her . 
hortense calls up cynthia , who initially breaks down in tears and refuses to see her . 
but their mutually suspicious meeting gives way to a warm friendship eventually . 
cynthia invites hortense to come along to a party , which maurice is hosting . . . 
secrets & lies has a simple enough theme at its heart -- as one character puts it , " best to tell the truth , isn't it ? 
that way nobody gets hurt . " . 
but if the film delivers much more than a trite message , it's because we are also shown how hard it can be to face up to ugly truths , even while the evasions and unspoken grievances slowly choke us . 
hence , cynthia's difficulty with acknowledging ( first to herself , then to others ) that hortense is her daughter . 
one of her first reactions to seeing hortense is a sincere denial that she has ever " been with a black man " , before a long-suppressed memory seizes her . 
at the party , cynthia's pretense that hortense is her factory co-worker leads her to ever more convoluted lies , as agonizing as they are funny . 
little lies seep into every corner , like maurice pretending that he's " just dropping by " when he visits cynthia after much deliberation . 
maurice's job as a photographer gives the film opportunities for side comments on the main theme - a sad-looking bride that maurice coaxes to smile , a couple who pose awkwardly with a prominent wedding ring and argue about his spectacles . 
one of the most startling images is of a beautiful woman with large scars on her face : she says she needs the photo to look " as bad as possible " to collect insurance money , yet the short scene leaves you wondering about what untold story lies behind the scars . 
there are occasionally hilarious moments , as when cynthia attempts to give her daughter some unwelcome advice on contraception , " i've got a dutch cap floating about somewhere upstairs " ; or when cynthia stares at her own rather pedestrian legs and tells roxanne , " if you've got it , flaunt it , is what i say . " 
as played by brenda blethyn , cynthia comes close to being a caricature , with her nervous , somewhat disconnected way of talking . 
but she's really just right for the role of someone who inspires sympathy and yet strains the tolerance of those around her , precisely because she's so needy of love , perhaps . 
indeed , the whole cast gives warmly rounded , detailed performances . 
the script was developed partly through improvisations , and the fusion of cast , script and director shows best in the party scene - seemingly everyone is talking at the same time , and yet many subtle observations are being made throughout . 
in a very different way , but also using a long single shot , the scene of hortense and cynthia's first meeting in a lonely caf=8a achieves a touching intensity , all the more for their reticence and unspoken feelings . 
the film's climax - with all the secrets and lies finally spilled out in ibsen-esque revelations , and everybody hugging each other - is the one thing that seems false about this film . 
however , it's a film that truly earns its happy ending after the misery and repression of the character's lives . 
when cynthia says near the end , this is the life , innit ? , you get the sense that , following the cynicism of his last film naked , leigh has rediscovered that life can be sweet after all , without comforting illusions . 
the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
richard linklater's " slacker , " made in 1991 for a budget of only $23 , 000 , immerses itself in the twentysomething , college-town culture of austin , texas . 
most of these characters are either unemployed or work jobs that are apparently too menial to be worth mentioning . 
their lifestyle is a sort of passive resistance to the idea that people should go out and actively pursue a career after graduation ; they seem content to sit around spouting off about the inadequacy of american democracy , the pervasiveness of slave morality , the subtle messages in pop culture , and such . 
ask them what they've been doing lately , and they'll more likely than not reply , " oh , you know , just hanging out . " 
linklater uses an interesting technique to examine these characters : the camera follows one person for a few minutes , then someone else walks by and the camera follows that person , who walks into a diner just as another person is walking out the door . 
 . 
 . 
 . 
it's certainly a lot of fun listening to these characters talk : some of them are clearly very intelligent and have some genuinely insightful ideas , some of them are just plain weird , and some of them think their ideas are a lot more profound than they really are . 
the opening monologue , delivered by linklater himself to a taxi driver , tosses around ideas about alternate realities that nicely set up the meandering structure of the film . 
other characters along the way offer observations about everything from dating relationships to the history of anarchist philosophy , while groups of pseudo-intellectuals kick around ideas about the nobility of sitting around and doing nothing or the subtle bribery-based morality in " scooby-doo . " 
for the most part , however , the best moments are the ones involving the slightly unhinged types . 
near the beginning , a paranoid man follows a pedestrian for several blocks , warning him about government conspiracies involving everything from global warming to secret colonization of mars . 
another man seems to be collecting televisions , keeping at least fifteen sets running at the same time and playing tapes of a graduate student who recorded himself having a nervous breakdown and destroying the camera . 
and in a scene that drew a big laugh from everyone present when i saw the film , a man tries to achieve closure after a failed relationship by reciting poetry on a bridge and then throwing a typewriter into the creek below . 
the only problem with " slacker " is that it starts to run out of steam towards the end . 
since linklater only spends a few minutes with each character , the introduction of the new characters gets repetitive after a while . 
there are only so many times you can hear , " hey , what's going on ? " 
 " not much , what are you up to ? " 
 " nothing really , just hanging around , " before it gets on your nerves ; the film might well have benefited from a slightly slower pace and a little bit more characterization . 
and the dialogue in the second half of the film is by and large not quite as interesting as that in the first half ; a jfk buff , for example , seems like a pale imitation of the previous conspiracy theorist , and many of the characters just generally aren't as weird or unique . 
instead of depicting a city populated by mostly normal people and then showing us the strangeness that we might not have noticed at first , linklater shows us the oddballs first , then stops and reminds us that ordinary people live there too . 
 " slacker " is a good film and a wonderfully offbeat and entertaining comedy , whatever its flaws , and its status as a cult classic is well-deserved . 
i just can't help but think it might have been even better if linklater had slowed down a little bit and filmed these scenes in reverse order . 
 " a breed apart " casts rutger hauer as a crazy , bird-loving recluse who picks his feathered friends over kathleen turner . 
a bit hard to swallow ? 
that's only the first of many improbabilities in this film . 
hauer stars as a man obsessed with keeping the birds on his island safe , while boothe plays a guy hired to steal a couple of rare eagle eggs by a rich egg collector . 
turner is the woman caught between the two men . 
 " a breed apart " isn't a bad movie , exactly . 
indeed , i found myself rooting for both the hauer and boothe characters , even though their goals couldn't be more different . 
the problem with the film is that there are just too many inconsistencies . 
for example , early on in the film , hauer physically assaults two drunken rednecks shooting at " his " birds . 
later on , the rednecks come back for revenge with four other people , and hauer kills a few of them . 
i have a tough time believing that the police wouldn't get involved at that point . 
another problem is the silly love-triangle that develops . 
i didn't care one way or the other who ended up with turner . 
i was more interested in finding out which of the two men would be victorious in their respective missions . 
however , despite this uninteresting sub-plot , turner did manage to give a great performance as the woman who reminds the two men that sometimes there's more to life than money and birds . 
as for hauer , he's an actor i've always admired .