he has a penchant for picking strange and unusual characters . 
and this one is no exception . 
he's frequently seen riding around his island on a white horse , wearing pirate's clothing , and holstering a cross-bow . 
despite all his eccentric mannerisms , though , hauer always manages to let the human side of his character shine through . 
for example , there's a scene in which he barks at turner and her son because they came onto his island a day early . 
he comes off as crazy loner in that scene , but a few minutes later , he is apologizing to turner , and we believe his intentions . 
soon after , we find out he's a vietnam vet , and his actions become fairly clear to us . 
 " a breed apart " isn't a great movie by any means , but it does contain good performances by all three leads , and it's worth seeing for that reason alone . 
titanic is so close to being the perfect movie it's upsetting that it isn't . 
the film , which cost $200 million+ to make and could of put 20th century fox into a lot of finicial trouble if it 'sunk' ( pun intended ) is a labour of love for cameron , who wrote and directed the film . 
we all know that big budget dosen't mean great film ( see waterworld ( 1995 ) ) but titanic is far superior to kevin costners waterlogged epic . 
but sadly , titanic just misses the mark of masterpiece ( although it is one of cameron's best films ) 
the film starts with present day explorers searching the runied titanic . 
they find a safe , and inside a picture of a woman . 
the woman in the picture ( an old winslet ) tells the explorers that the picture is of her . 
the explorers invite her over , and she then tells her story of titanic . 
in the flashback , dicaprio plays poor boy jack dawson , who , after winning a poker game , wins two tickets to board the grand ship titanic , leaving liverpool to go to america . 
also boarding the ship is rich woman rose dewitt bukater ( winslet ) who is being forced into a marriage with a man she dosen't love at all , cal hockley ( zane ) so her family can remain rich . 
she nearly commits suicide on the ship , but jack comes to the rescue , saves rose , they fall in love , and cal gets jealous and eventually tries to kill them . 
oh yeah , and the ship sinks . 
and that is the main problem with the film , and which stops it from being a work of genius . 
the story and script ( both by cameron ) are both weak . 
the story is full of cliched characters , ( the creepy man who the nice girl has to marry , the poor boy with heart , the stuck-up mother ) and poor dialogue ( the script consists of lots of in-jokes of how the boat won't sink , and most of the dialogue is pretty basic ) it's a shame really , as the audience does have to sit through 3 hours of this film . 
without good dialogue , a film could become a very long , very boring film ( like camerons own terminator 2 , 1992 ) but , luckily , there are some redeeming features that make the story and dialogue problems just disappear . 
firstly , there's cameron's direction . 
there are some great sweeping shots of the titanic , and some clever fades between the flashback titanic and the ruined titanic . 
but the scenes cameron directs especially well are the disaster scenes at the end . 
there is a lot of mayhem and panic , all done very well by cameron . 
it's a scary sight , watching bodies fall from great heights into the watery depths below . 
thanks to cameron's direction , then , the audiences attention is held for the full 3 hours 15 minutes . 
to support the directing are the excellent cast , working very well with their underwritten characters . 
dicaprio is good , although he only looks 16-17 years old . 
his performance of a over excitiable , yet also well mannered boy is excellent , and he also has some funny lines . 
winslet is great also , and her transistion from a well mannered rich girl to a rebelous young adult is pretty smooth . 
zane is deliciously evil as cal , saying every line with a sneer and a flicker of the eye lash . 
the audience really does come to hate him . 
he may be playing the same character he plays in every film he's in ( like dead calm , 1988 ) but he does it really , really well . 
also worthy of note is kathy bates ( edward scissorhands , 1990 ) as a loud mouthed american . 
finally , the icing on the 'great things' cake are the special effects . 
cameron is a whiz with effects ( just watch aliens ( 1988 ) , terminator 2 and true lies , 1994 ) and they are used very well throughout . 
the sweeps of the ships are awesome , although digital domain , who did the effects , cannot animate human movement too well . 
the humans seem to move to 'smoothly' , there's just something odd about them . 
you can tell that they have been animated on a computer . 
of course , the ship sinking scenes are awesome , with bodies flying all over the place , and the scene where the ship splits in half has to be seen to be believed . 
titanic is one of the only films where effects have reinforced the film . 
titanic , then , is a wonder of directing , acting and cgi , but not writing and story . 
again , like most of camerons films , the editing is loose ( cameron edits himself ) , and the film could of come in under three hours with a few more cuts . 
titanic , then , although not the godfather of movies it could of been , is a wonderful attempt at creating a work of genius . 
enjoyable , scary , and even sad , titanic is a film cinema was invented for , filling the screen with incredible images , and assaulting the ears with awesome sound . 
a superb film , but sadly not perfect . 
overall rating= ( 
on seeing the outrageous previews for bulworth one wonders what plot could possibly allow beatty get away with making those statements ( in case you missed it , warren beatty plays a politician on the campaign trail . 
he says to a black congregation " . . . if you can't cut down on malt liquor and chicken wings and get behind someone other than a running back who stabs his wife , you're never gonna get rid of me . " ) 
well , there is such a plot , and it works very well in this comedy . 
beatty plays jay billington bulworth , a long-time democratic senator from california . 
the movie opens on a painfully repetitious montage of bulworth's latest commercials condemning affirmative action . 
the montage is ironically intercut with pictures of martin luther king and bulworth in his youth working with jack kennedy . 
when we finally lay eyes on bulworth he is morosely weeping in front of his tv , having gone without food or sleep for days . 
his campaign is entering the final weekend before the primaries but his depression has sunk in too far for him to care . 
first he calls a lobbyist from the insurance industry to get a bribe - a $10 million life insurance policy in his daughter's name . 
then he calls an associate to arrange for his own assassination . 
his assistant murphy ( oliver platt ) is oblivious to bulworth's suicidal state and drags him to his speaking engagements . 
bulworth halfheartedly reads his speech at an african-american church , then takes questions from the audience . 
he is hit hard with questions about his voting record . 
he had promised money to help rebuild the community after the riots , and it hasn't shown up . 
since he's a dead man anyway , he figures he'll answer truthfully : he and bill clinton and newt gingrich came to l . a . for the photo opportunity . 
they made some promises that improved their public image for a while , and then counted on the media and the public to eventually forget about the promises they made . 
the shock and outrage from the congregation grows , the questions keep coming , and he keeps shooting back honest , if ugly , answers . 
 ( before i go further , i'd like to make a distinction that the denver post failed to make , and that is that characterizing african-americans as malt-liquor drinking o . j . 
fans is not part of bulworth's " truth . " 
that line is in the trailers but it should not be praised like the other political confessions he makes in the movie . 
when the critics praise beatty for speaking the truth about politics , this line is not what they're talking about . ) 
the experience is liberating . 
with nothing left to lose , bulworth is no longer restricted to burping generic platitudes out of both sides of his mouth . 
he can say whatever he wants because he's going to be dead anyway . 
why not tell the people the truth about being a sleazy politician - that he is bought and paid for by lobbyists , and that racism among the populace protects politicians from being the target of charges of classism ? 
bulworth's candor wins him three volunteers from the church , one of whom , nikki ( halle barry ) , he gets a crush on . 
he feels so good afterwards that he actually eats something . 
chicken wings , appropriately enough . 
bulworth shows up late for his meeting with some movie studio executives . 
when one of them asks where he stands on government regulation of movie and tv ratings , bulworth drifts to the topic of the quality of filmed entertainment . 
with so much money and so many talented people working so hard , he wonders , why can't hollywood make a quality product . 
 ( you go , warren ! ) 
when they become indignant and ask why he's talking to them if he has such a low opinion of their product , he callously admits that it's because they are rich jews . 
that night he drops the three african-american volunteers at their nightclub , and he decides to go in with them . 
he stays up all night drinking , smoking pot , dancing , falling in love with nikki , and learning to scratch turntables and rap . 
the next day , he shuns his prepared speech and instead raps to the suit-and-tie fundraisers . 
from then on , at all of his political appearances , he raps his political truth . 
his rap is not bad for a middle-aged white guy . 
he's not very good , but it is his first try and at least he's not embarrassingly bad . 
his lobbyists are not amused , but the rest of his constituency seems to like the new bulworth . 
eventually , the movie's plot ( remember he hired a hit man ? ) 
overtakes the politics , which is too bad . 
screen time is spent with bulworth trying to cancel the request for his assassination while the hit man seems to be closing in on him . 
there are even a few gratuitous chase scenes , bulworth fleeing his killer . 
these scenes may have been necessary to keep the events of the film moving along , but it distracted and detracted from bulworth's political ranting , which was much more interesting than the ever-present , obvious-looking assassin . 
still , most of the movie is original and very enjoyable , and beatty deserves most of credit for bringing it to the screen . 
as the story and screen writer , he came up first with a good structure , then with good dialogue to back it up ( jeremy pikser co-wrote the screenplay ) . 
as an actor , he was able to convincingly portray bulworth's depression , then liberation and rebirth . 
as a producer ( there were four others ) he was able to keep the movie free from hollywood's indulgent formulas ( except for those inexcusable chase scenes ) . 
someone else probably could have directed , but since he was there anyway , what the heck . 
it's too bad that there aren't more movies like this around - movies that tackle political corruption in a way that challenges viewers to pay more attention to real politics . 
after all , much of the inspiration for bulworth is straight out of the news . 
just a little perception and insight and you could write your own bulworth rants . 
just don't expect to be popular with the insurance companies . 
american pie acknowledges a cold , hard fact that most movies don't : it is very difficult to get laid . 
its four virgin heroes are jim ( biggs ) , a chronic masturbator , kev ( nicholas ) , who desperately wants to deflower his girlfriend ( reid ) , oz ( klein ) , a lacrosse player whose approach requires some fine tuning , and finch ( eddie kaye thomas ) , a germphobe ( his crass nickname is hilarious , but i won't spoil it here ) who pays a classmate to spread rumours about the size of his member . 
jim , kev , oz and finch attend a high school in suburban michigan full of so many impossibly beautiful women it's no wonder they're horny all the time . 
after a party at their studly friend stifler's ( seann william scott , in the film's sharpest performance ) house leaves them sexually unsatisfied , the quartet make a pact : to " lose it " by graduation-specifically , prom night , which is only a few weeks away . 
american pie is in the tradition of bachelor party or revenge of the nerds . 
almost every conversation these characters have revolves around makin' whoopee . 
all women are there to be ogled . 
 ( alyson hannigan's perky music student is the only memorable female of the bunch . ) 
situations abound that defy logic only to arouse and/or amuse its core audience , adolescent boys . 
 ( to arouse : nadia's ( shannon elizabeth ) internet striptease-an unexpectedly raucous ( and guiltily pleasurable ) sequence . 
to amuse : jim's lusty encounter with a hot apple pie . ) 
what differentiates american pie from those dirty eighties comedies , aside from a very nineties obsession with bodily fluids * , is a cast that's light years more appealing than that of , say , just one of the guys . 
two more standouts : klein and " sctv " 's eugene levy . 
klein plays a kind-hearted athlete for the second time in a row , after alexander payne's underappreciated election . 
i hope to see more of this warm actor with the disarmingly honest face very soon . 
levy's is the most crowd-pleasing performance , and indeed , it's nice to see him back on the big screen in a role that makes wonderful use of that expressive brow . 
american pie also wants to emulate the teen flicks your parents _would_ let you watch growing up . 
it skillfully employs a broad mix of pop tunes , much like john hughes' movies did , and even pays homage to the breakfast club a couple of times , most evidently when the prom band covers simple minds' " don't you ( forget about me ) . " 
the picture ultimately has a healthy , if obligatory , attitude towards safe sex-even at their most libidinous , american pie's protagonists first whip out a condom . 
the filmmakers prove that socially responsible raunch is possible . 
for its familiarity and for its charming leads , i recommend american pie , but the buzz on this film had me expecting something . . . fresher . 
as far as the new teen cinema goes , it's at the top of the heap . 
 * don't say i didn't warn you about the party scene . 
the 1998 summer movie season is still in its infancy . 
but after diasappointing films such as " godzilla " and " fear and loathing in las vegas " , it would be nice to see a really good film . 
but i doubt you could have expected this . 
the truman show is one of the most unique films i have ever seen , and it deserves a spot on the " decade's best " list . 
there is no way to isolate any single component of this picture and proclaim , " yes , that's what makes this film great . " 
the blend of peter weir's masterful ( and in many ways brilliant ) direction , peter biziou's stunning photography and jim carrey's performance is what makes this film work so fantastically . 
there is something strangely beautiful about every shot in the truman show . 
it may be the use of color or the placement of characters in the frame , but everything about this film looks intentional and perfect . 
carrey has made a very wise choice . 
by playing mild-mannered truman burbank , he allows himself enough room to be comical , and therefore not alienating his true fans , while still showing a vulnerable and human side . 
that is a side which has been missing from nearly every major character he has played in his numerous commercial successes . 
truman burbank was born to an audience of millions . 
he was chosen before birth to be the focus of a 24 hour television show . 
everything in his environment is controlled by a team of technicians , led by the show's director , christof ( played by ed harris ) . 
everyone in truman's life is an actor or an extra . 
they are all being watched by millions of people around the globe , people who can tune in at any time of the day to see what is happening in truman's life . 
but he is the only person that is not aware of it . 
the classification of the truman show may be tricky . 
the audience reacted to many of truman's revelations with laughter . 
i did not laugh much during the film because i was so emotionally wrapped up with the character . 
the things that made the audience laugh gave me glassy eyes , because what was happening to him , indeed what had been done to him his whole life was wrong . 
so is this going to end up labeled as a comedy ? 
a drama ? 
it really depends on the audience . 
but to me , the truman show was a touching , sad tale about the extents to which a corporation will go to exploit human life for the entertainment of others . 
but above all else , the truman show was a stunningly beautiful picture with humor , heart and scary realism . 
oscar predictions in june are pointless , but if the truman show had been released on schedule in late fall or winter of 1997 , as originally planned , james cameron would be oscar-less . 
one way of telling if a film is good or not is by the length . 
if a film is only 90 minutes , but feels like 300 minutes , then it's crap . 
but if a film last 2 1/2 hours , and feels like 90 minutes , then it's excellent . 
boogie nights falls into the latter catagory . 
the director , anderson , delivers a funny , hip , yet sometimes violent film , which flies along . 
mark whalberg , a . k . a 
marky mark , plays eddie adams , a seventeen year old with a certain 'gift' in the midriff area . 
jack horner ( reynolds ) is a adult film director , who decides that eddie would be great in the adult movie business . 
after running away from home , eddie joins jack , changes his name to dirk diggler , and starts making erotic movies . 
in the movie business , dirk meets a whole load of characters ( which the film introduces very quickly and slickly ) such as scotty ( phillip seymour hoffman ) , rollergirl ( graham ) amber ( moore ) and floyd ( phillip baker hall ) , and little bill ( william h . macy ) all the characters are well written , well played , and the audience gets to know them pretty well , thanks to the excellent script . 
we learn about ambers grief about not being able to see her child due to a divorce , rollergirls hard time at school , and little bills wife , who sleeps with everyone except her husband . 
but the best thing about the excellent boogie nights is paul andersons direction and writing . 
the direction is fast , thrilling , and never holds up . 
there are some great shots , some lovely steadiocam and handheld camera sequences , and lots of other neat directional touches . 
the writing is fabulous , with some intelligent dialogue , some funny dialogue , but none of the dialogue is crap , like most hollywood films ( such as the lost world : jurassic park ( 1997 ) , or tommorow never dies ( 1997 ) . ) 
boogie nights really is a spectacular feat of direction and writing , on par ( and sometimes betters ) quentin tarantino's films resevoir dogs ( 1992 ) and pulp fiction ( 1994 ) 
the soundtrack is also excellent . 
like american graffiti ( 1973 ) , the film features some great old songs on the soundtrack , which heightens the atmosphere , and gives the film an extra lift . 
also , the costumes are great . 
the clothes really do look like what people wore in the seventies and eighties . 
the film , although excellent , does have some flaws . 
firstly , wahlberg , although excellent , cannot do highly scenes which require him to be angry . 
in both scenes where he has to act angry , his acting is so 'off' , the scenes tension and anger is lost . 
but the rest of the cast are excellent . 
burt reynolds is brilliant , julianne moore shows real emotion , and william h . macy is great aswell ( but he always is . ) 
another flaw with the film , though , is that the ending seems a bit tacked on . 
it seems anderson saw the film was going on a bit , and needed to wrap up quickly . 
it's a shame , really , as the rest of the film is perfectly paced . 
but they're small niggles really . 
boogie nights is an excellent film . 
superb directing , writing , acting and music , all combine to make one spectacular film . 
whatever you do , do not miss out on boogie nights . 
it's ironic that the best films in cinema history are invariably the original director's cut of the film . 
films such as aliens , the abyss , the wild bunch , blade runner , and terminator 2 are all prime examples of a filmmaker's integrity , later chopped up or mucked with by the studio . 
the advent of the dvd format has provided a more accessible way to get these original cuts to the public and provide to film freaks like myself the ability to become further enraptured by the extension of such classic films . 
the dvd release of the original international version of luc besson's 1995 masterpiece the professional , which is known as l ? on around the world , is a prime example of how a good film can become an instant classic as a director's cut . 
for years , i have heard of an " international " version available only in laserdisc format , which has eluded me for years . 
i even bought a laserdisc player from my uncle don for 100 bucks just to watch certain directors' cuts - including l ? on . 
but after countless searches in laserdisc stores , i could never find it . 
until now . 
the film follows the story of l ? on , played by jean reno , a professional hit man for an italian mob crew run by danny aiello . 
he lives next door to a ferociously independent 12-year-old girl named mathilda - played by then newcomer natalie portman , whose father is involved in drugs and crooked cops . 
one day , a crew of the cops - lead by gary oldman in an over-the-top performance - kills her entire family while mathilda is out buying groceries . 
taking pity on her , l ? on hides her in his apartment when she returns to save her life . 
mathilda learns of l ? on's hit man profession and decides to follow in l ? on's footsteps as a " cleaner . " 
she then falls in love with him and manages to reawaken emotions within l ? on he has kept locked away as part of his profession . 
at this point , the differences in the american version and the international version really kick in . 
the international version contains an additional 24 minutes of footage that pertains directly to the relationship of l ? on and mathilda , footage that american censors deemed " too explicit . " 
i assume that american censors feel that defining character development is too much for american audiences to handle . 
the best part of this extra footage is that gives better understanding of both mathilda's and l ? on's motivations pertaining to later actions involving oldman and his crew of bad cops . 
there's even a previously unseen cameo by the great french actor jean-hugues anglade - star of queen margot , besson's la femme nikita , and killing zoe . 
with these additional scenes replaced , l ? on and matilda's relationship brings you emotionally closer to the film and draws stronger bonds between the characters that were murky in the american version . 
the most ironic thing about the international version of the film is that with the inclusion of the missing scenes , the film becomes primarily a heavy , emotional drama punctuated with big action scenes at the beginning and the end of the film . 
the film betters reflects the serious drama of french cinema but is laced with pieces reflecting the brutality of american cinema . 
my advice to everyone out there is to throw away your copy of the professional , throw down twenty bucks , and pick up this newly restored cinematic masterpiece . 
director/writer : luc besson producer : luc besson , claude besson starring : jean reno , natalie portman , gary oldman , danny aiello 
while it was part of former yugoslavia , my country , croatia , used to be almost completely ignored by western films in general . 
words " croatia " and " croatians " were unheard , even in movies whose plots actually took place on croatian locations . 
the rare exception was the dogs of war , 1980 adaptation of frederick forsyth's bestselling novel , yet that rare occasion only added insult to the injury , by mentioning croatians in most unflattering context . 
in a single line they are referred as a bunch of mean people , probably terrorists , who happen to remove parts of arm dealers' stomachs when they are unsatisfied with the quality of merchandise . 
same line also illustrates the milieu where the movie takes place - dark and violent world of shady international deals with the blurred boundaries between business , politics and crime . 
the movie protagonist , shannon ( christopher walken ) is a mercenary who spent the best years of his life fighting numerous little wars all over the globe . 
his latest job is a intelligence mission for powerful mining corporation that demands information about political climate in west african nation of zangaro . 
shannon arrives in that country only to find oppressive regime of president kimba , bloodthirsty madman whose brutality crushed any opposition and scared almost any westerners away . 
after being arrested and tortured by kimba's secret police , shannon leaves country with a help of british journalist north ( colin blakely ) . 
upon return , he is approached by mining company again , but this time they want him to plan and execute the coup d'etat against kimba . 
shannon reluctantly agrees and assembles small group of his surviving mercenary friends who begin meticulous preparation for another small war . 
thing that separates the dogs of war from conventional action movies , especially those made in 1980s , is its authenticity , almost close to documentary . 
it shouldn't surprise anyone , because the author of the novel , frederick forsyth , made reputation by blending fiction with real life , thus creating interesting , exciting yet very believable plots for his books . 
those plots were also responsible for few very successful 1970s thrillers , and one of them , zinnemman's the day of the jackal , is now considered a classic in that genre . 
this one deals with soldiers of fortune , ancient tradition that was resurrected in great turmoil of 1960s and 1970s and filled the void left by vanishing colonial empires . 
unlike wild geese , that used it as a pretext for conventional action adventure , script by george malko and gary de vore ( author whose death last year became real life mystery ) is serious , and instead of action puts emphasis on characters and prosaic details of their work . 
the movie doesn't try to romanticise the mercenary profession nor glorify mercenaries as some kind of superheroes ; they are simply shown as deadly yet expendable tool of powerful forces with questionable agenda . 
christopher walken played in many movies , yet very rarely we can see him in a leading role . 
his performance in this film perhaps isn't breathtaking , yet adequate . 
his notoriously expressionless face is perfect illustration of the disillusioned , world- weary man whose alienation from the " normal " way of life becomes complete and only remaining ideal is loyalty to the shrinking circle of friends . 
although the movie doesn't lack capable actors , their roles are miniature compared with walken's , and only colin blakely as cynical reporter has opportunity to portray his character . 
however , those who look familiar faces would find them plenty in the dogs of war - tom berenger , paul freeman , jo beth williams , victoria tennant ( in brief cameo ) , and biggest surprise is ed o'neill ( of married with children fame ) as shannon's reluctant colleague . 
this was the first major production for john irvin , and it shows why he earned the reputation of capable , yet second class director . 
with the good script he can make very good movie , with the bad script he can make real mess . 
luckily , the dogs of war had a good script . 
irvin's direction was very ascetic and it gave the movie almost documentary feel . 
the only distraction is dramatic music of geoffrey burgon , used on the wrong places . 
in the final battle scene , where we can see mercenaries at work , irvin shows us that modern warfare means superior firepower and tactics , unlike 1980s ramboesque fantasies that rely on macho superheroes . 
unfortunately , by making battle realistic irvin made it somewhat less attractive and his sloppy editing also didn't help . 
but , despite those shortcomings , this movie remains interesting and rare combination of action thriller and gritty , realistic political drama . 
the happy bastard's quick movie review 
analyze this 
how does one do a comedy focused on the mob ? 
well , a few years ago , there was a sly little comedy called the freshman , which had marlon brando doing a romp of a send-up of his famous don corleone character and , recently , the utterly stupid ( in a bad way ) movie mafia ! 
failed to really get the joke . 
this time around , however , warner bros . may have gotten it right with analyze this , a movie that hits its targets more than it misses . . . and 
for plenty of reasons . 
the story goes like this . 
a mobster ( robert deniro ) finds himself receiving several panic attacks as of late , fueled by the stress of an upcoming mobster meeting and a near-death following a drive-by shooting . 
it's these attacks that prompt him to hire a psychiatrist ( billy crystal ) who's mostly reluctant to take the mobster's case for two reasons . 
first , of course , he's a mobster , but secondly , he's trying to get married and enjoy a quiet honeymoon with his wife ( lisa kudrow ) and kid . 
and , of course , he can't rest worth for a moment because the mobster's goons are always needing the shrink for something , be it a quick consultation or dream analyzation . 
fortunately , the movie is played out for plenty of laughs . 
director harold ramis ( who also helmed the comedy multiplicity , which wasn't half bad ) keeps the tone peppy and light , even if it's sometimes sprinkled by slight dramatic moments ( shootings can't always be taken for laughs , you know ) . 
deniro does some of his finest comic work since the king of comedy , giving off a somewhat similar performance to his role in goodfellas , but with a bit of a lighter heart . 
 ( a scene where he tries to display his anger over the phone and fails miserably is hilarious . ) 
crystal plays an excellent straight man to deniro's character , uplifting him from such bombs as father's day and my giant . 
kudrow is also a hoot as crystal's wife-to-be , who's on the verge of a breakdown thanks to deniro's presence . 
is the movie perfect ? 
not really , thanks to a simplistic ending and some slightly wasted moments with a character portrayed by chazz palminteri ( he's a comic actor , too , come on , give him some more ! ) , but it is an enjoyable romp that lets deniro do something different but same for a change , taking his dramatic act to a new field of comedy . 
kudos to crystal and kudrow for not just making it his show , either . 
line of the movie : crystal : " when you said you needed family therapy , this is not the family i had in mind ! " 
this is a film about secrets , some that are innocent like those of a cute little farm girl , frances boyd ( ashley ) . 
others that are between a married couple that is impacting their relationship , like the problems of infertility affecting this upwardly mobile couple , geoffrey gaines ( stephen ramsey ) , the medical researcher working for a big corporation called fex and striving to get a patent for his experiment and become recognized in his field , and his artist wife , lillian ( miriam healy-louie ) , who reluctantly stands behind her husband suppressing her natural artistic tendencies in order to make the marriage work . 
and , still other secrets that have a greater implication for the world and are deadly in a political sense , of science carried out by the big corporations like it was a business run for the bottom line . 
receiving a summer grant to study " chemo-electric therapy , " geoffrey and his wife are hoping that a summer spent away from the intensity of the big city will bring back the romance that is dwindling from their marriage and that the casualness of the country atmosphere will give them more time together , as their three-year marriage has become shaky because he is more interested in his work than he is in her . 
he has slyly managed to keep his work as secretive as possible by locking himself in the lab , which is off limits to her , as he secretly goes about conducting experiments on rats and mice , convincing her that what he is doing is to benefit humanity with possible new treatments and cures to illnesses . 
his main argument is , that this is what the public wants , they don't want to hear about how some animals had to die because of these experiments , they just want the benefits of science . 
that he is depicted as a monster creating another monster , much like frankenstein was created , is the argument skewed by the director against his bad science ( science as a business ) as opposed to the good science ( science that cares about the small farmer ) , which is represented by the handsome and almost perfect gentleman , alex vine ( david ) , a young ecologist who chooses to work in the field , trying to get the farmers to go back to organic farming . 
he is hired by the university to monitor the dangers of pesticides and all the chemicals the farmer is almost forced to use to survive financially , as it is doing irreparable harm to him and the consumer because of all the health risks attached to this new way of farming , methods that have just come about in the last thirty- years and are being pushed by the big companies to enhance their profit margins . 
the third view in all this is the artist's , represented by lillian , who points out that the artist's work is shown in public and scrutinized constantly , " why shouldn't the same be true of the scientist ? " 
she argues that the artist is the watchdog for the public , questioning what is good or evil in society , something that bad science has completely ignored . 
geoffrey , impatient to get ahead with his research , feels bogged down by the bureaucrats in his firm who fail to provide him with the three chimps he needs to experiment on , as he contacts one of the company's higher ups to argue his case , but decides he can't wait any longer for their help , so he sets an animal trap in the countryside and catches chester , the gorgeous pet dog of frances , a dog that means so much to her and her family because he saved her life . 
while out in the field with the bloodied trapped dog already in the back seat of his car , he is spotted by alex and one of his co-workers , and nervously invites them to dinner with his wife , afraid that alex will spot what he is doing , as he rushes away from the area . 
in the dinner scene that was , unfortunately , flatly done , but was nevertheless the heart of the film , as all the main characters get a chance to speak out from the point of view they represent as they eat meat , a means of getting protein that the radical scientists have eschewed since they became so politically correct about everything . 
the scientists engage in a rational argument , highlighting their different points of view , while lillian reacts in an emotional way , siding mostly with david's view but coming at it from a much different angle . 
it was as if the actors were puppets on strings that the director controlled and they just spewed out their generalized philosophies . 
that the director's point of view is absolutely right , is beside the point . 
the point is that the characters lost their humanity and became one-dimensional characters . 
geoffrey was likened to a hideous monster , alex vine was likened to his last name , the one who holds fast to the ground ensuring that the plant has stability , while lillian was likened to the muse of poetry and art , the inspiration for goodness and beauty . 
alex has been spending a lot of time together with lillian , as these two seem to share the same views and are physically attracted to each other , but when the time is ripe for an affair to take place between them , lillian changes her mind and decides not to go up to alex's apartment . 
geoffrey is already suspicious of alex and considers him an enemy , and the marriage seems to be coming apart and all his cunning tricks to possess her are no longer working , as it is now impossible to see any good in him and there becomes no reason why she would remain with him . 
the relationship has disintegrated way beyond the point of her just feeling lonely . 
the dog is discovered by alex and her in a deplorable state after geoffrey is seen by them electrically shocking it , and mercifully the dog dies . 
the only thing left for her to do is walk out of the marriage , but she also fails to respond to david's loving gesture for her to stay with him , instead opting to head back to the city . 
the farmer whose dog was tortured to death comes into the scientist's lab and knocks him cold while he was in the middle of a phone conversation with one of the higher-ups who told him all the animals he needs are on the way . 
what is progress ? 
what can one expect out of life ? 
is the small farmer about to become extinct ? 
the answers to these questions can best be answered by either good science or art , which are both closely related to the american natives vision of a world entrusted to mankind so that he can respect it and take care of it and enrich it with his creations to benefit mankind in a peaceful way . 
that this work fails to be subtle and polarizes opinions , leaving no room for deeper arguments , is the shame of this decent and smart film , that tried so hard to say what it felt it had to say but said it so loudly without trusting its audience to catch on to its message by not making everything seem so black and white . 
no telling said a lot about the harmful trends it sees science going in ; it probably said too much and would have been better off if its vision was more poetical and less didactic . 
there is something about listening to a lecture that turns off the rebel in me , as i don't like being hit in the head with the truth but prefer to have it presented in the form that leads to inspiration or told metaphorically . 
that is not to say that i found the film without considerable merit , that inspite of its shortcomings , it was worth seeing because of its visual statements , though they were also not too subtle , they were at least effective in setting up the intense mood that the film needed to show that there is a mental war going on currently , of those who believe one way is right and others who differ with them , and that anyone who is neutral must be considered an enemy because of their indifference . 
the stakes in this ecological struggle are that high . 
perhaps the most powerful visual statement in the film , was the dead cow from pesticides shown in the opening scene . 
it was the image that lillian spent her time painting all summer and had the same affect for her as did the animal faces in picasso's guernica had for him . 
both artists envisioned the horrors that man could do against the world , and represented this unspoken pain on the faces of the animals so that anyone who cares to really see what is going on , will not mistake which side of the fence he or she should be on . 
the pain that lillian feels , as she forgets about her desires to raise a family , and she stares at her painting of the cow and the song , " make the world go away " blares out from the background , after she has learned that frances' beautiful and loving dog has been brutalized by her monster of a husband , all in the name of science , had a raw power to it that personalizes the dangers of bad science . 
perhaps , the most pertinent question the film asks , requires an answer that must be resolved by the farmers and the consumers who are most caught in the changing world and its new way of doing business , as the question becomes , can science be happily married with art ? 
this british import follows the ( mis- ) adventures of a group of heroin crazed scottish youths . 
there is marc renton ( who narrates ) , spud ( the dim-witted one ) sick boy ( the sean connery obsessive ) , and begbee ( the violence obsessive ) . 
powered by a top rate , but not top name soundtrack ( iggy pop , sleeper , elastica , lou reed . . . ) the film follows renton who gets clean , gets back into heroin and gets clean again . 
some of the wit in this movie is sharp and pulp fiction-esque , and some is just dumb & dumber gross ( the bed sheets ) and stupid ( the bb gun ) although the film starts out on a comic note , it takes a sharp term in the middle , and becomes almost depressing . 
the film is based on an irving welsh novel bearing the same title . 
i can honestly say that this is one of the best movies i have ever seen . 
it is an obscure gem that has been over shadowed in the us by such movies as mission impossible and id4 . 
the film is hard to follow with the heavy accents of the actors . 
this is a very original film , as far as films go today . 
it definetly deserves multiple viewings ( partly because of the slang and accents ) jeremy dennison mr . orange@centuryinter . net 
you may not have heard of lucas , or if you have , you might not think much of it . 
probably because it stars corey haim , or maybe because it's about a little geek who collects insects , or maybe because it doesn't feature slick one-liners or the chart topping soundtrack albums that were almost a requirement for teen films in the 80's . 
however , you have been missing out on a true masterpeice , the best film of 1986 , and the best film about adolescent life ever made . 
corey haim stars as lucas bligh , a tiny 14 year old with scruffy hair , thick glasses , and an interest in insects and other outdoor life . 
one day he stops by the tennis courts and sees what must be an angel to him . 
her name is maggie , a 16 year old who certainly is a beauty , with lovely red hair and a sweet , innocent complexion . 
maggie seems to be a little disturbed by this little kid watching her , but somehow he interests her , and soon they are talking and getting to know one another . 
they gradually become good friends , and spend the summer together doing various things , such as studying insects ( namely locusts , who come out of hiding once every 17 years ) , playing tennis , and listening to a symphony orchestra through a manhole cover . 
lucas is obviously in love with maggie , and while she is charmed by him , it's clear that she would never consider him anything more than a very good friend . 
this is not clear to lucas , however . 
he still beleives that maggie is his soulmate , and he dreads the impending start of school because he knows what's about to happen . 
we soon find out why in a painful scene where lucas is humiliated by the jocks during a pep rally . 
they throw him on stage , right in front of his beloved maggie . 
surprisingly , he turns the tables on the jocks with some clowning around , but he takes it too far , and is embarassed in front of the entire school . 
the next scene is brilliant . 
maggie follows lucas outside of the pep rally . 
she tries to talk to him as if nothing happened . 
he rails back against her , in a cruel unfair fashion . 
in lesser movies this would've turned into a confrontation between the two characters . 
but maggie is written smarter than that . 
she understands what lucas is feeling and knows exactly what to say to console him . 
next we are introduced to another great character named cappie ( charlie sheen ) . 
he is a jock with a typical cheerleader girlfriend . 
what's interesting about him is that he sticks up for lucas and protects him from the other jocks . 
of course anyone with a brain can tell what's gonna happen next . 
cappie will cause conflict in maggie and lucas' relationship . 
this begins in classic scene in the school laundry room when cappie and maggie are alone . 
she's been assigned to show him how to operate the washer/dryer so he can clean his shirt . 
maggie is charmed by cappie's tender undertsanding demeanor , not to mention his shirtless body . 
this scene is so delicate and sweet , but cappie still has a girlfriend , preventing either one from acting on their desires . 
desperately trying to puncture the tension , cappie begins to kick basketballs around the room . 
it's not long before cappie does break up with his girlfriend ( in the films only subpar scene ) . 
lucas finally figures out what's going on when he tries to pick maggie up for the dance . 
this causes him to take severe actions to prove himself to maggie and himself , such as try out for the football team . 
the last third of the film revolves around this attempt . 
while the idea seems cliched , the way it is executed is not . 
there are many surprises during the last half hour which lead to an ending so emotionally involving it should make the most heartless of cynics get choked up . 
dave grusin's memorable score , played at the perfect moments , certainly helps . 
lucas is filled with great performances . 
forget everything you know about corey haim . 
back in 1986 he had talent , and that is proven here as he delivers a perfect fully 3-dimensional performance filled with anger , humor , and pain . 
kerri green is very appealing as maggie , showing us why she cares about lucas so much and why he is so attracted to her . 
sheen's cappie is almost too good to be true , but sheen makes him beleivable , especially when he explains the reason why he protects lucas . 
there are other wonderful minor characters such as ciro popitti's ben , a friend of lucas , whose diminutive stature does not mean he will take crap from the jocks . 
also turning up in a few key scenes is winona ryder as rina , the girl who admires lucas from afar . 
when people talk about the great teen angst films of the 80s , you hear john hughes this and john hughes that . 
lucas seems to be lost among the crowd of his so-called classics . 
but hopefully , like with heathers and say anything , lucas can begin to find it's own loyal following and help people realize there were more to the 80s than anthony michael hall and molly ringwald . 
it deserves more than that , but i don't want to be greedy . 
in arguably the most anticipated movie this century , george lucas has achieved a very mixed reaction to a sure blockbuster . 
despite the fact the script and plot is a bit of a let down , the entire movie on the whole can be considered a milestone in technical excellence , in the sound and special effects department . 
in terms of characters , by far the most outstanding and interesting is queen amidala ( natalie portman ) , whose mature performance far exceeds her tender 14 years of age . 
she is one ? hot' babe who defines true ? woman leadership' . 
she not only has a presence , but knows how to take command of the situation and save her planet from ruination . 
no thanks to the jedi knights who although led by the force , lack leadership qualities in terms of thinking up a plan to do anything . 
the young obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor ) who has a bad hair day in every scene , gets to kill a bad guy in the end , but lacks a love interest to make him a desirable sort of hero . 
in fact all the jedi knight are a bit asexual - there must be something about the force which makes them all hermits and loners . 
i mean it would be interesting to see yoda's girlfriend for a change , if he has one . 
not much better is qui-gon jinn ( liam neeson ) who mostly broods , and has a better hair do than obi-wan , but only to find the young anakin skywalker and make the biggest mistake of his life . 
also fascinating is george lucas ? metoclorian' theory , which claims that micro-organisms live within our cells and tie us to the fabric of the universe . 
and it is the high concentrations of these organisms in an individual which make them particularly powerful in the force . 
more humerous are the claims to the immaculate conception of darth vader , no doubt a concept stolen from the christian faith , except there will be no christmas to celebrate the birth of this dark emissary of the force . 
overall an experience which is not to be missed because of the very fact that it's predecessor almost command a viewing of this inferior successor . 
by all means not the pinnacle of the star wars phenomena but an adequate addition to the clan . 
watch out for the next one , it should be one steamy encounter between queen amidala and anakin skywalker - who i believe should be portrayed by ? leonardo di caprio . 
felix ( sami bouajila , " the siege " ) lives a contented life with his boyfriend daniel ( pierre-loup rajot ) in the little town of dieppe in northern france . 
when he is laid off from his job , after discovering the address of the father who abandoned him before he was born , he decides to journey to marseilles , in the south , to find the man he never met in " the adventures of felix . " 
writers/directors olivier ducastel and jacques martineau made their debut with the musical comedy " jeanne and the perfect guy , " embracing that typically american genre . 
their second effort , " the adventures of felix , " once again borrows from america with a tale of a young man who hits the road to find himself . 
felix is happy with his life in dieppe , but when the ferry company he works for falls prey to the economics of the chunnel , he is out of a job and at loose ends . 
when he goes through his late mother's papers he learns that the father he never knew is living in marseilles , hundreds of miles away . 
felix makes the snap decision to journey to the south , puts together a supply of " cocktails " for his hiv virus , kisses daniel goodbye and heads off on foot . 
he refuses to use trains and wants to avoid big cities as he hitchhikes across france to find his destiny . 
along the way , a series of chance encounters with various strangers teaches felix that family is not always made up of blood relations . 
on the road , he witnesses a race-related mugging that turns into murder and , frightened for his own safety , runs away without telling the police . 
following this harrowing experience , he has his first chance meeting that begins the unconscious construction of his ideal family . 
his journey brings him to rouen , and the film's first title section , " my little brother , " where he meets jules , a young art student who becomes smitten with felix . 
they steal a car and develop a chaste , brotherly affection before felix must move on . 
he next meets elderly mathilde ( patachou ) , in the chapter titled " my grandmother , " and soon learns that she , too , has a fondness for the same tv soap opera that felix has grown addicted to . 
she wants him to stay with her , but he must continue on his way to find his father . 
in the weakest chapter of felix's road trip , titled " my cousin , " he meets a railroad worker ( philippe garziano ) and has a brief sexual encounter before heading off , once again , toward marseilles . 
he next helps a stranded lady motorist , isabelle ( ariane ascaride ) , and shags a ride with her and her three kids ( each with a different daddy ) in the sequence titled " my sister . " 
he is torn by the inner turmoil of not going to the police about the murder he witnessed and isabelle comforts him just as a sister would . 
on the final leg of the journey titled " my father , " he meets an older man , a fisherman ( maurice benichou ) , who enlightens him about the real facts of life and family while they fly felix's kite , just like a father and son . 
 " the adventures of felix " has a number of things going for it as we follow felix on his journey of discovery . 
first and foremost is the charming performance by sami bouajila as felix . 
he is a likable guy , fighting his hiv with his doses of " cocktails , " and lights up the screen as he makes the long walk , often with dance and song , to find his father and himself . 
as he encounters each member of his new family , promising each that he will send a postcard when he arrives at his final destination , he grows a little bit more spiritually and emotionally . 
bouajila does a terrific job holding center stage on the screen . 
the cast of characters making up felix's new-found family are nearly as charming as the star , each in their own way . 
patachou , especially , is wonderful as the grandma character and a kindred spirit to felix . 
ariane ascaride , along with her kids , gives a perf that really makes you think of her as the sister that the young man never had . 
only the " cousin " chapter lacks the emotional depth of the rest and feels like a perfunctory addition to felix's " family . " 
 " the adventures of felix " does not reinvent the road movie , but it does provide a charismatic telling of a young man's journey to find himself and , to his surprise , his discovery is dramatically different than he expected at the beginning . 
it helps that cinematographer matthieu poirot-delpech's crisp lensing compliments the story perfectly as felix moves across the french countryside . 
i give it a b+ . 
i know that " funnest " isn't a word . 
 " fun " is a noun , and therefore cannot be conjugated like an adjective . 
but that's the word that came to me right after viewing " chicken run . " 
no wonder : this is the kind of movie that reduces you to childish expressions , like " that was the funnest movie i've ever seen ! " 
so to hell with webster's -- " chicken run " is one of the funnest movies i've seen in a while . 
i can't remember the last time i've seen anything funner . 
the chickens at tweedy's farm are up to something . 
living in a concentration camp-like atmosphere , they are led by one plucky hen called ginger ( voice of julia sawalha ) who continually comes up with plans for escape -- and always gets caught , subsequently spending day after day in the coal box . 
one night , a brash american rooster flies in over the fence , calling himself rocky ( mel gibson ) , famous flying rooster and circus performer . 
rocky promises to teach the chickens how to fly , and the situation grows more desperate as the nefarious mrs . tweedy ( miranda richardson ) decides to abandon the farm's egg-selling plan for a pie-selling plan . 
she orders a huge pie-making machine , cackling , " chickens go in ; pies come out . " 
what sort of pies ? 
chicken pies , of course . 
co-director nick park and his studio , aardman animation , produced three oscar-winning short films : " creature comforts , " " the wrong trousers , " and " a close shave . " 
the latter two were the second and third installments of a trilogy starring the delightful team wallace & gromit , a man and his dog famous for getting themselves into increasingly peculiar adventures . 
part of what made the " wallace " films brilliantly entertaining was park's uncanny ability to make an old story seem new . 
 " the wrong trousers , " for example , pulled out a lot of old hitchcockian suspense tricks , and " a close shave " owed a great deal of inspiration to classic detective stories . 
but in the hands of park and his team , the stories felt fresh and inspired , and not the least bit contrived . 
now teaming with co-director peter lord , park has created a similar creature in " chicken run . " 
the plot is largely lifted from " the great escape " ( watch for a quick reference to the ball-bouncing scene ) , with some spielberg-inspired action sequences providing the excitement . 
thing is , the film doesn't feel like it's been lifted from somewhere else ; " chicken run " feels fresh , alive , like nothing else ever done . 
part of it is the original idea : who in the world came up with the idea to make a prisoners-of-war movie starring chickens ? 
park and lord milk the incongruity for all it's worth : the characters treat their situation as if it were dead serious , and to them , it is . 
but they're * chickens * , so it's funny to us . 
another thing that helps " chicken run " ( and most of park's films ) succeed is the animators' subtle way of giving nods to the very films they're cribbing . 
there are references to " the great escape , " obviously , and " stalag 17 . " 
the chase sequence inside the chicken grinder parodies both " raiders of the lost ark " and " indiana jones and the temple of doom . " 
there's even a nod to " the blues brothers , " if you can believe it , and the filmmakers even get in a little light-hearted ribbing at the expense of their star voice actor , taking a couple of very subtle jabs at mel gibson's nationality and film history . 
the " braveheart " reference is a hoot if you catch it . 
when you consider just how fine a line resides between a funny parody and a redundant one , " chicken run " is downright brilliant in its execution . 
consider this : since july of last year , i've seen dozens upon dozens of " blair witch project " parodies , on television , on the radio , and online . 
out of all those , maybe one or two were amusing , the rest tiresome . 
why ? 
because once you got past the thought that " they're parodying that 'blair witch' movie , " most of the parodies had nothing to offer -- no insight , no original idea , no greater purpose . 
they were only funny if you had seen the movie ; otherwise , you got nothing . 
conversely , " chicken run " doesn't lean on its parodies -- the film references are never the sole focus of any scene . 
if you've never seen " indiana jones , " the chase sequence is still fun . 
even if you have no idea who mel gibson is , rocky remains an interesting character . 
park , lord , and screenwriter karey kirkpatrick realize that an audience does not need a parody shoved in their faces before it's understood , and as a result , " chicken run " is filled with visual and verbal jabs that are never too obvious , but not quite vague either . 
enjoyment of this movie doesn't require knowledge of film history , but if you've got it , " chicken run " is that much richer . 
the voice cast turns in uniformly lively performances , and the characters they play are given so many subtle nuances that it's hard not to fall in love with every one of them . 
ginger is perfect , spunky and opinionated , but with a soft heart that forbids her to leave her companions behind , and julia sawalha ( known as the cute mousy girl on " absolutely fabulous " ) nails it . 
she has warm , human chemistry with gibson , whose rocky hides his personal doubt under a brash gung-ho veneer . 
the characters' inevitable romance doesn't feel contrived , but sweet . 
poor mr . tweedy ( tony haygarth ) suspects the chickens are organizing in some way , but his limited intellect prevents him from figuring things out , and his overbearing wife certainly isn't any help . 
jane horrocks delivers a lovely voice characterization as tragically optimistic babs ( a hen that runs away with most of the best one-liners , all while perpetually crocheting a sweater ) , and two supply-trading rats that seem to have walked straight out of a monty python sketch nearly steal the show during the lively central swing-dancing sequence . 
they even come up with an inspired riff on something that's baffled scholars and theologians alike for decades : the chicken vs . egg dilemma . 
one might have expected this inevitable joke to come off as wearisome , but as with most of " chicken run , " it comes as a delightful surprise . 
the film manages to cross all barriers ; it should be accessible to both children and adults , brits and yanks , rats and chickens . 
the animation is first-rate . 
remember that this was all done the old-fashioned way , with actual humans moving clay figurines around on a tiny set bit by painstaking bit , and you see just how truly remarkable " chicken run " really is . 
this movie possesses that same quality that makes pixar studios' animation great : precise and unwavering attention to detail . 
as in such top-notch family fare as " a bug's life " or " toy story 2 , " " chicken run " has something to offer in nearly every frame . 
certainly a passive viewer can enjoy it as a straightforward story with a worthwhile moral and some surprisingly touching scenes , but a active , attentive viewers will enjoy it even more because they'll catch all the details . 
anyway , the movie's just a boatload of fun . 
funnest damn movie i've seen all year . 
after the press screening of " moulin rouge , " i stood in the lobby of the theater listening to the reactions of my friends and colleagues . 
everyone seemed a bit numb , understandable after sitting through a barrage of often-incongruous sounds and images . 
a pal of mine simply said that he loved the film and could hardly wait to take his wife to see it . 
another enthusiast immediately began to analyze the production , while a woman who flat-out hated the movie gave him the skunk eye . 
when one fellow quietly stated " i've never really been a fan of musicals , " the statement surprised me because , even though the story is told almost completely through song , i didn't think of it as a musical . 
there is so much going on in " moulin rouge " that " musical " seems too small a term to cover it . 
 " moulin rouge " is the kind of creation that sends critics scurrying off to the big tub o' adjectives in search of proper words to describe the experience . 
australian director baz luhrmann , the man behind " strictly ballroom " and " romeo + juliet , " fills the heads of viewers with unique camerawork , opulent imagery and songs ranging from " the sound of music " to " smells like teen spirit . " 
sumptuous and beautiful , vulgar and overdone , " moulin rogue " travels through the looking glass while an ethereal stereo loaded with 50 years worth of catchy tunes operates on the " random " setting . 
oh , and it has a story as well . 
 " it was 1899 , the summer of love . . . 
 " christian ( ewan mcgregor ) is a penniless young writer newly arrived in paris , " to write about truth , beauty , freedom and love , " where he encounters a group of bohemians , led by henri de toulouse-lautrec ( john leguizamo ) . 
christian meets satine ( nicole kidman ) , a courtesan from the legendary moulin rogue , and his world transforms from black and white to technicolor . 
at once fragile and vivacious , the dazzling red-haired woman sweeps him off his feet without even trying . 
christian instantly falls in love with her and satine finds herself smitten with him as well , which is quite a hindrance for someone in her profession . 
working with the bohemians and moulin rogue impresario harold zidler ( jim broadbent ) , christian writes an opus modestly named " spectacular spectacular . " 
zidler quickly finds a backer , the wealthy duke of monroth ( richard roxburgh ) , but there's a catch ? the duke also wants the hand of the fair satine . 
as if all that isn't enough , satine has a cough , and while a cough in the real world probably indicates a cold , it rarely turns out to be anything that simple in movie land . 
like a teeter-totter , " moulin rogue " moves up and down between the ridiculous and the sublime . 
one of the loveliest moments comes as christine and satine commune outdoors at night , becoming part of a defiantly unrealistic parisian cityscape straight from a book of fairy tales . 
together they dance , while serenaded by the man in the moon ( alessandro safina provides the vocals ) , apparently transported from the classic georges m ? li ? s silent film to guard the nocturnal sky . 
other scenes merely traffic in everything-and-the-kitchen-sink overload . 
the cavorting of toulouse-lautrec and his comrades gets strained at times and some of their overt comedy , accompanied by cartoon sound effects , is overly reminiscent of the frenzied farce that sitcoms like " bewitched " beat into the ground . 
of course , sensory overload was exactly what baz luhrmann had in mind . 
 " we never heard from baz to turn it down , " one of the actors told the los angeles times . 
 " it was always , 'more ! 
more ! ' " 
the director even sent a note to his cast reading , " i dare you to make me say you've gone too far . " 
the musical numbers reflect his attitude . 
one knockout piece , the " elephant love medley , " incorporates the beatles' " all you need is love , " u2's " in the name of love , " dolly parton's " i will always love you " and elton john and bernie taupin's " your song . " 
need more ? 
how about " diamonds are a girl's best friend " spiced with portions of " material girl ? " 
luhrmann's cast offers a wide variety of approaches that , together , add up to something messy , but often wonderful . 
ewan mcgregor is extremely likable as christian , emphasizing the sincerity of the love-struck poet . 
mcgregor's singing voice is robust and adds vigor at just the right moments . 
once labeled the " ice queen , " nicole kidman melts that characterization with a sizzling , yet tender , performance . 
she handles the songs adroitly , although her voice sounds a bit thin in the upper range . 
veteran character actor jim broadbent is suitably larger than life as ringmaster zidler ? wait until you see him perform " like a virgin . " 
as the buffoonish duke , richard roxburgh proves to be the film's weakest link , although i'm sure he was simply following instructions . 
i suspect " moulin rogue " will be one of those love-it-or-hate-it films . 
while i didn't completely love it , i most certainly liked it a lot . 
over the course of a year , i see well over 300 movies , and most of them look like xeroxes of each other . 
 " moulin rogue " is an original , and an original , even a flawed one , is a thing to be cherished . 
 " living out loud , " is the type of motion picture we don't often see : it is a film about mature , intelligent adults , instead of the usual american film , in which children basically dress up in grown-up clothing and parade around acting like immature seven-year-olds . 
judith ( holly hunter ) , a fortysomething living in new york city , has been having a difficult time with life lately . 
she is extremely depressed about her recent divorce to her husband ( martin donovan ) , who had been cheating on her . 
she cannot sleep , haunted by terrible memories , often imagines off-the-wall things to try and make the world seem like a better place , and the only place she can really go to feel happy is to hear one of her favorite singers , liz bailey ( queen latifah ) , perform at a local club . 
judith's life does start to brighten a little when , one night when she gets home to her apartment late , strikes up a conversation with the elevator operator , pat ( danny devito ) , a lonely man in his fifties whom has lost his daughter recently . 
both of them create a sort of emotional connection with each other , seeking comfort with the other person , but while pat starts to form a deep love for her , judith only wants to remain friends . 
 " living out loud , " which was written by richard lagravenese ( " the bridges of madison county " ) , who is also making his directing debut here , is a wonderful film from beginning to end , one that is honest , genuinely funny , and poignant . 
the three central characters , that of judith , pat , and liz , are all written to be free-thinking , complex human beings , and are all likable , but flawed , people who are constantly interesting , as is the film itself . 
one highly original element of the film is that judith occasionally imagines things occuring in her mind in the way she wishes they would happen . 
sometimes it results in comedy , and sometimes it turns out to be subtle and truly touching . 
one sequence that stands out is when judith is at a restaurant by herself , reading a novel . 
an older woman comes over to her , mentions that that is a great book she is reading , and then goes over to join her own friends . 
as the woman sits down , she looks over to see judith by herself , and motions for her to come join them . 
instantly , we realize this was simply in judith's mind , as we see the same woman just sit down at the table and begin talking to her friends . 
holly hunter and danny devito both give the performances of their careers here . 
hunter , of course , was brilliant in 1993's " the piano , " for which she won an academy award , but in this film she is even better , i think . 
she finds the right note for each scene and holds it . 
and devito has never had such a humanistic role before , which i was surprised about . 
usually he is used as the butt of a joke , or as a caricature , but in this film , has a living-and-breathing , sympathetic person to play . 
topping it all off is latifah , also a singer , who is quickly turning into a respectable actress herself , and has a juicy , natural supporting role as , in some ways , judith's role model . 
another joy of the film is that it does not somehow form a contrived , " happy " ending , but , in staying with its realistic tone , manages to be upbeat , but truthful . 
the last shot is an especially powerful image . 
nothing is said , but just the image of someone walking down a sidewalk says it all . 
the relationship that results between judith and pat is true-to-life and sincere . 
as we watch these two people talk , and get to know each other , all that we wish for them both is to be happy , even if that does not include for them to become romantically involved . 
and as , " living out loud , " which is one of the best films of the year , proves , sometimes a friendship is the strongest bond anyone could possibly ask for . 
`oh behave ! 
felicity shagwell is one shagadellic babe . 
do i make your horny ? 
female fembots with breasts that require gun controlling . 
anything that resembles bananas and two balls of icecream . 
the nut-biting finale between mini me and austin . 
all that body hair is a real turn on , it's a pity more leading men don't wear it on screen . 
anything that vaguely resembles sausages and eggs . 
fat bastard . 
the love scene between felicity and fat bastard , that redefines sex . 
the wrongly implied love scene in the tent that redefines anal sex . 
the love scene between austin and ivana humpalot , that redefines chess and oral sex . 
the love scene between dr . evil and frau farbissina , that redefines weird sex . 
the love affair between austin and felicity , that does not happen , because his mojo goes missing . 
the relationship between dr evil , himself and mini me which redefines a solo love affair . 
the unique relationship between dr evil and his son scott www . com . zip , that says a lot about our relationship with our children nowadays . 
weanies , johnny , richard , dick etc . ' 
this movie is every bit as silly and crazy as the first . 
there are moments that will make your sick , which are probably best forgotten , but overall mike myers has redefined what it means to be an international spy and leading man . 
written by john grisham and robert altman ( as al hayes ) 
directed by robert altman 
some time ago , a young director was given the opportunity to direct the screen version of a popular novel . 
the novel was a summer smash , topping best-seller lists across the country and already drawing speculation as to which popular actors of the day might play the leads . 
the only problem : the novel wasn't very good . 
it was far more pulp than pulitzer . 
but the director realized that , no matter how pedestrian the prose , this book really grabbed people - that the author , while not a great writer , was a fantastic storyteller . 
so he took on the project , convinced he could make something happen on screen . 
the director ? 
francis ford coppola . 
the book , of course , was mario puzo's the godfather . 
the rest , as they say in showbiz , was history . 
by bringing up the godfather , i don't mean to suggest that robert altman's the gingerbread man is destined for that level of greatness . 
but the parallel does suggest that it is possible to create great cinema from questionable source material . 
can you get any more questionable than john grisham ? 
depends on whom you ask . 
but there's no question that grisham's work grabs people . 
like puzo , grisham is a better storyteller than a writer - unlike fellow hack michael crichton , who is a good idea man but who can't tell a well-constructed story from a can of spam . 
so something in grisham's unpublished story of a cocky savannah lawyer who gets involved in a deadly family squabble drew the attention of robert altman , who at 73 years old remains one of america's greatest living filmmakers . 
the result is a gripping thriller that , while falling short of classic cinema , deserves its place in the altman canon . 
>from its opening shot to the closing credits , the gingerbread man is permeated with a sense of dread , with a fear of the natural destructive forces of the universe . 
this terrific sense of mood is a classic altman touch . 
witness said opening shot : we see an aerial view of coastal georgia with its writhing , undulating landscape while the soundtrack grumbles ominously in our ear . 
we roll over the hills into the town of savannah , then zoom in close on a red sports car speeding over a bridge while its driver chatters oblivious on his cell phone . 
right away we know that the driver of that car is in for a few surprises . 
pay attention , boys and girls - this shot was not conceived by john grisham , but by altman . 
this is what a great director can do for questionable source material . 
the sports car belongs to rick magruder ( kenneth branagh ) , the aforementioned hotshot attorney who specializes in police brutality cases . 
magruder has just won a high profile case and celebrates that night with a catered party at his office . 
outside after the party he meets one of the waitresses , mallory doss ( embeth davidzt ) , just as she realizes her car has been stolen . 
driven by southern chivalry , a driving rainstorm and his unspoken attraction to the fragile waitress , magruder offers her a ride home . 
there he learns more about mallory's life than he bargained for . 
her car was stolen by her schizophrenic father dixon ( robert duvall ) , a ted kyzynski-style whacko who has been stalking and terrorizing his own daughter . 
magruder , perhaps influenced by mallory's decision to strip off her wet clothes in front of him , is sympathetic to her plight , and offers to help her get her father committed - right after he sleeps with her , of course . 
this simple offer of help leads magruder down a dangerous path with a black end . 
he succeeds in having dixon incarcerated in a mental hospital , and for a moment all appears well . 
but then dixon's crack team of homeless commandos bust him out of the lockup - and suddenly magruder finds himself , mallory and his own children in danger . 
the cops won't lift a finger to help a liberal attorney . 
his only allies are his faithful assistant lois ( daryl hannah ) and his bumbling private-eye sidekick clyde ( robert downey jr ) . 
if this predicament wasn't bad enough , hurricane geraldo is bearing down on savannah and throwing the world into chaos . 
altman may provide the atmosphere , but branagh's performance holds the gingerbread man together . 
an accomplished actor when he isn't directing himself in vanity productions , branagh does a fine job of making rick a sympathetic hero while casting doubt upon his motives . 
is his offer of help to mallory an act of kindness , or of egotism ? 
magruder is so sure of his place in the world that he never considers that he has bitten off more than he can chew until he has to swallow it - and by then it's too late . 
as the plot unfolds , magruder learns that none of us are as secure as we think we are . 
and life is never so bad that it can't get worse . 
if you're familiar with altman's work , you'll recognize several of his signature techniques . 
characters are not introduced in establishing shots , but rather are allowed to wander in the background of scenes until their importance becomes apparent . 
crucial scenes are shot from the outside through windows , making the audience unwitting voyeurs of the action . 
dialog overlaps and the actors seem to slip naturally into an improvisational style . 
and of course there's my favorite altman technique - the obligatory nude actress shot . 
thanks to altman , here are some of the actresses i've had the pleasure of seeing naked : sally kellerman , julianne moore , madeline stowe , even frances mcdormand . 
and now i can add embeth davidtz , who looks quite healthy in the altogether . 
the naked actress shot has become as ubiquitous to the altman film as the director cameo was to the hitchcock film . 
is it old-school sexism , or a clever in-joke ? 
you be the judge . 
but back to the picture at hand . 
in the hands of a mere mortal , the gingerbread man would have been a routine thriller , no better or worse than the countless others we've all endured . 
in the hands of a master like altman , it becomes an exercise in existential doom , in its own way far more successful than scorsese's cape fear remake , which tried for the same result . 
what may prevent it from enduring with altman's greatest work is a weak third act - in fact , there really is no third act in grisham's story , so it appears that altman had to throw in the hurricane just to jazz things up . 
but there are true moments of riveting suspense , and great performances by branagh , davidzt and downey jr - more than enough to see you through . 
that polygram so hated this picture that they tried to steal final cut from altman , and then buried the marketing campaign when he won it back , should tell you how utterly clueless of quality most studios are . 
they probably wanted it to look more like a time to kill . 
and that , my friends , should make you very afraid . 
october sky is a rare oddity in cinema : a self-proclaimed " uplifting " film that is actually uplifting ! 
based on the autobiographical book by homer hickam , rocket boys , october sky tells the struggle of four boys reaching for their dream . 
it's 1957 , and for the boys of coalwood , west virginia , there's not much hope of a rosy future . 
coalwood is a coal mining town , and , except for the few lucky ones who manage to escape on a football scholarship , most of coalwood's boys are destined to work in the mine . 
but , in october 1957 , an event happens that sparks one boy to dream . 
the launch of the soviet satellite sputnik sets homer hickam ( jake gyllenhaal ) to dream a future of rocketry and space travel . 
of course , homer's parents ( chris cooper and natalie canderday ) aren't quite sure what to make of their son's unusual interests . 
homer gets his strongest encouragement from miss riley ( laura dern ) , a teacher in his school who also informs him about the scholarships offered to the winners of a national science fair . 
and so , with stars in his eyes , and thoughts of scholarships in his head , homer enlists the help of three other boys ( william lee scott , chad lindberg and chris owen ) and begins to build a rocket . 
but , do these four backwoods boys even have the slightest hope of escaping their destiny ? 
there is a lot that could have gone wrong with october sky . 
nearly every sequence flirts with becoming syrupy and cliched . 
however , miraculously , october sky avoids nearly all of these pitfalls , making the exact right moves at the exact right times . 
a film emerges which manages to be powerful and moving without slipping into the gauzy haze of nostalgia or sliding down the sugarry slope of sappiness . 
jake gyllenhaal is outstanding as the kid at the center of this film . 
>from the outset of the film , he is immediately likable , and never seems too corny or brainy as to alienate the audience . 
unfortunately , while october sky focuses on homer , the other three kids get the short end of the stick . 
they remain little more than placeholders reading " insert friend here " . 
of the adults in the film , chris cooper is the most fully realized character . 
the film never paints him as merely the villainous parent standing in the way of his child's dreams , but , instead , shows the multihued portrait of a man who wants the best for his family and town , but is too stubborn to realize what that is . 
director joe johnson deserves much credit for successfully navigating the many obstacles that october sky manages to dodge . 
however , there are still a few occasions when he allows things to proceed just a step too far . 
scenes which were natural and inspiring start to become contrived and artificial . 
however , these lapses are minimal , and johnson quickly steers the movie back on course . 
the problem with many so-called " uplifting " films is that they attempt to force their mediciney goodness down your throat . 
october sky never resorts to that level , and yet , manages to become a truly uplifting film purely on its own merits . 
this three hour movie opens up with a view of singer/guitar player/musician/composer frank zappa rehearsing with his fellow band members . 
all the rest displays a compilation of footage , mostly from the concert at the palladium in new york city , halloween 1979 . 
other footage shows backstage foolishness , and amazing clay animation by bruce bickford . 
the performance of " titties and beer " played in this movie is very entertaining , with drummer terry bozzio supplying the voice of the devil . 
frank's guitar solos outdo any van halen or hendrix i've ever heard . 
bruce bickford's outlandish clay animation is that beyond belief with zooms , morphings , etc . and actually , it doesn't even look like clay , it looks like meat . 
while watching boiler room , i was constantly reminded of last year's masterpiece fight club . 
both films consist of a predominately male cast . 
both films follow young men as they illicitly fight the traditional system for their own desires . 
and both films are seen through the eyes of one narrator , who eventually realizes that these men have to be stopped . 
while boiler room writer/director ben younger does not get his point across as well as david fincher does for fight club , he does contribute another impressive work to a series of films aiming to represent the new generation . 
a generation which has seen the internet prosper and where everyone wants to be a millionaire . 
paying homage to oliver stone's 1987 classic wall street , younger is almost modernizing the tale by using younger , hipper actors to play the greedy villains as opposed to the older , more experienced types . 
as is true in real life , younger minds are becoming richer and richer from their knowledge of more standard technology . 
boiler room dismisses the notion of ingenuity and shows that greed and desire for power come in all ages . 
another similarity with fight club is that both films are not action flicks . 
some people are convinced that an all-male cast automatically means there must be gory violence , here is proof that this is not true . 
if you want to see an action movie starring ben affleck , go see reindeer games this weekend . 
if you want to see a smart , insightful film with excellent acting and a clever script , see boiler room . 
giovanni ribisi gives an outstanding performance as the film's narrator , seth . 
after dropping out of college and running a lucrative gambling center for college students in his apartment , seth is offered a high paying job by a wealthy man ( nicky katt ) . 
he agrees to take the job ( in which you are guaranteed to become a millionaire within three years ) of selling stock to well-off americans from the mid-west over the telephone and begins to fit in quite well with his co-workers . 
learning tricky techniques to deceive innocent people into buying shares of a good in production , seth figures this is too good to be true . 
after stumbling into a room at the wrong time , he knows there is something no good about this company . 
at this point , seth is left with the ultimate choice ; continue with the american dream and make millions or tell the authorities that something fishy is going on . 
ribisi is believable as seth especially when he shares scenes with ron rifkin , playing seth's dad . 
the two have perfect chemistry as a troubled father and son trying to impress each other and simultaneously impress themselves . 
the transitions from anger to sympathy that these scenes contain are the standout segments of the entire film . 
the supporting cast of greedy co-workers is also flawless . 
ben affleck shines in a short but sweet performance as a recruiter for the company , nicky katt is fabulous as the ostensibly friendly boss who eventually becomes extremely jealous of seth , and vin diesel gives his best performance of his career as the foil character of nicky katt . 
the energy of the cast as a whole makes boiler room well paced and never boring . 
the only major error in the film is that nothing major happens . 
there is no big plot twist or climatic point to make the film more memorable . 
due to the lack of a major event , boiler room never finds a suitable genre to fit into . 
the movie is not intense enough to be a thriller , the romantic segments involving seth and abby ( nia long ) are not properly finalized , and the dialogue isn't funny enough to make it a comedy . 
in having trouble to characterize the movie as a whole , boiler room is slightly confused at times . 
it doesn't seem to know which category to fit itself into . 
one satisfying concluding scene could have changed the whole film for the better . 
otherwise , the movie is fun to watch thanks to its lively cast of young actors . 
ok , let's get one thing straight right away : maximum risk is no battleship potemkin ( although it does have some russians in it ! ) , but it's not too bad , really . 
it's the new film from ringo lam , the latest hong kong filmmaker to defect to hollywood , and stars that minor league schwartzeneggar from belgium , jean-claude van damme ( who , you will recall , also starred in john woo's maiden hollywood effort , hard target ) . 
in lam's film , van damme plays alain moreau , a french cop ( at least his accent makes more sense here than it did in hard target ) who discovers that he was separated shortly after birth from a twin brother who was adopted by russians . 
these russians defected to the united states and moved into a black neighbourhood in new york ( where , i suppose , they thought they wouldn't be noticed ) . 
this brother , mikhail suverov ( played in his few scenes by . . . well , 
you know ) , becomes deeply involved in the russian mafia and the fbi ( almost the same thing , i guess ) , and is killed in france ( in the movie , things happen so fast that you don't have too much time to think about how weird this all is ) . 
moreau does what any good surviving twin brother would do and goes to new york to find out why mikhail was killed , and why everyone in france who knows anything about him is also being killed ( we wonder the same thing ; i still do ) . 
in little odessa , he meets mikhail's girlfriend , alex ( natasha henstridge , last seen in species ) , who helps him solve the mystery and adds immeasurably to the mise-en-scene ( she has very nice breasts , and we get to seen them briefly in this movie ; it was rated r in the us but is pg here , so they must have seen more of her breasts than we do ) . 
this film lacks the gloss and high production values of such other action movies as broken arrow , the fugitive , hard target , or anything starring arnold , but that works to its benefit , i think . 
after all , one thing that's been missing from woo's hollywood films is that certain hong kong funkiness that we all know and love ( well , some of us do ) . 
movies like this shouldn't be too pretentious , and that is part of the problem with some of these other films : they try to be too " big " in terms of special effects and sheer spectacle . 
maximum risk has its share of car chases and explosions , but they don't overwhelm the movie or detract our attention from the narrative ( not too much , anyway ) . 
the emphasis throughout is on the characters and their interactions ( even if , at times , they don't make a hell of a lot of sense ) . 
in fact , one of the more interesting aspects of the film is a minor character , a rather overeager new york cabbie ( frank van keeken from tv's " kids in the hall " ) , who begins as something of a joke but becomes an important part of the story . 
unfortunately , by the time we have come to really get interested in him , he . . . well , 
you'll see . 
the movie also features some set pieces of the type that we have come to expect from lam and his hong kong compatriots . 
one is a fight in a russian sauna , with lots of sweaty , muscular male flesh ( this one will appeal to certain parts of the audience more than others ) , bullets in heads , and vodka . 
another , my personal favorite , is a fight in a meat packing house , featuring pig carcasses and a chainsaw . 
and even the predictable car chases are more hong kong than hollywood , as they trash those quaint french cafes , vegetable carts , and , well , french people that , we all know in our hearts , deserve trashing just for being so damn quaint . 
of course , the movie does have its share of silliness . 
for example , while beating the crap out of an obnoxious russian thug who obviously deserves what he's getting , alain stops long enough to look at his own reflection in the cracked mirror with which he has been whacking the guy on the head . 
in an unnecessarily dramatic moment , he apparently is shocked at what he sees , at what he has become . 
but what has he become ? 
a tough cop who beats the hell out of a guy who tried to kill him ? 
doesn't sound too unreasonable to me , considering the genre . 
but let's face it , any time van damme tries to be dramatic , he looks silly . 
so maximum risk is a little different from most other action films . 
while watching it , i was surprised , and a little disappointed , in the relative lack of pyrotechnics . 
but watching some of these other action films is sort of like experiencing a sugar rush ; after the initial excitement , there's not much left . 
although it's short on spectacle , lam's film leaves a better and more lasting impression , i think . 
i'm more impressed by it now than i was while watching it , and to me , that's a good sign . 
go see maximum risk , but don't expect a typical hollywood action movie ; expect a sort of funky hong kong-hollywood action movie . 
the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
dr t . white teaches film at the english language and literature department of the national university of singapore , but we don't hold this against him . 
trailing the success of brit humour in the movie industry with the likes of the semi-dramatic the commitments and the nearly slapstick a fish called wanda , the full monty is one film which delivered the depth of the former and the humour magnitude of the latter . 
the film opens with a narrated documentary reel showing the improving economic and living standards of sheffield in the 60's , then cut to the harsh reality of the present . 
sheffield has become some sort of a semi-slum with the only visible increase in anything was the amount of layoffs from steel-factories ; a once flourishing industry . 
gaz ( carlyle ) spends most of his time in the worker's club , a sort of place where jobless people sit around to wait for job offers . 
he and his `plump' friend dave ( addy ) as well as their former foreman gerald ( wilkinson ) have been sitting around the club for months without any `call for duty' . 
what seemingly was just a passing hard time for gaz suddenly transformed itself into desperation when he cannot afford the 700 pounds of child-support money to his ex-wife . 
suddenly finding himself facing the possiblity of losing custody of his son , he goes on to concoct an enterprising wild-idea to get the money he desperately requires . 
dave and gerald too have problems of their own . 
on top of his lack of employment , dave is also faced with the paranoia of his wife leaving him because of his current financial state as well as his`plump' appearance while gerald have been cheating on his wife by not telling her of his layoff for as long as 6 months , leaving home for `work' when he was actually a long-standing member of the worker's club . 
there we have it ; people with real problems and a not-so-practical solution for them . 
gaz manages to get the support from them and sure enough they managed to get a few other poor jobless blokes to join in their gag : to perform a strip-act at the local pub . 
in gaz's own words while looking at an add for a strip-act featuring hunky `beautiful' men , `if women are willing to pay for this , they sure as well will pay for real-men' . 
the full monty is very simple in nature and not a trace ambitious at all . 
it is a small film which delves in the harsh-reality of unemployment and the desperation it drives people to . 
it also is a very light movie to watch despite the theme it delves in because it has a lot of human-factor going for it . 
never for once , was it trying to be manipulative at all , the full monty was true to itself all the way . 
while the hilarity level of this film soared unexpectedly high , audience will find that they are in no way being cheated of a laugh , something lacking in many comedy films ( wannabes ? ) from hollywood . 
other than carlyle , who acted as the psychotic begbie in trainspotting , the rest of the actors were definitely very new to me on-screen . 
however , the acting presented in this film is more than satisfying . 
carlyle's work here is a stark contrast to his character in trainspotting , implying real acting skill and flexibility on-screen . 
kudos to the people involved in this film , especially to director peter cattaneo for being able to put together an excellent film which is has so much potential in ending up as your just-another-striptease . 
already a critical and financial success for such a small film , the full monty is a humble film which deserves applause throughout . 
while titanic managed to feast the eyes and soul in an epic way , the full monty gives one the same satisfaction ? ? . in 
half the time . 
 " you'll go ape over tarzan because it's more fun than a barrel of monkeys ! " 
okay , there's the quote in case disney wants to put something in their ads for the movie . 
disney's latest animated feature throws us right into the action from the very beginning , skipping the usual main title sequence and putting us on pitching waves as a small family attempts to escape from a sinking ship . 
father , mother , and infant somehow make it to shore amidst a rousing song by phil collins , and have soon built a treehouse which would impress the swiss family robinson . 
it's amazing , the kinds of things you can do when you work to a soundtrack . 
before you know it , an unfortunate set of circumstances put the baby in the hands of kala ( glenn close ) , a mother ape who recently lost her own baby to a predatory leopard . 
against the wishes of her mate and family leader , kerchak ( lance henricksen ) , she takes on the infant boy as her own . 
tarzan is not so much a story about a human boy surviving in the african jungles as it is about one who does not really fit in either humanity or the wild . 
much of tarzan's young life is spent trying to become one of the apes in the eyes of his peers and his " father , " which occasionally gets him into trouble no matter how well-meant his attempts . 
all he's looking for is acceptance , perhaps a goal easily identifiable by young viewers , but one which will ring true with a lot of adults . 
when you really think about it , this story fits right into the disney formula of the outcast that triumphs in the end . 
look back on past disney animated features and you'll see the trend . 
growing up , tarzan ( voiced by alex d . linz as a child , and by tony goldwyn as an adult ) has a couple of friends . 
one is an ape named terk ( rosie o'donnell ) , and the other is a paranoid hypochondriac of an elephant named tantor ( wayne knight ) . 
both provide the requisite comic relief ( timon and poombah from the lion king immediately come to mind ) and perform the usual hijinks as prescribed by the disney mold . 
i'm beginning to think anyone can write the screenplay for one of these films . 
just fill in the blanks ! 
can you see it ? 
 " now we have to have a couple of zany friends for out hero who might get him into mischief , but cover for him or come to his rescue when he needs it . 
we've already had a fish and a crab , and we've had a candle and a teapot , a genie and a dog , a few stone statues . . . . have 
we had an ape and an elephant yet ? 
well , there we go ! " 
of course , there's gotta be romance somewhere along the line , so jane ( minnie driver ) gets introduced about halfway through . 
together with her father dr . porter ( nigel hawthorne ) and the big game hunter clayton ( brian blessed ) , jane is on an expedition to find and study the wild gorillas of africa . 
she discovers the man raised by apes and is enchanted almost immediately , and soon shares an amusing version of the compulsory " you tarzan , me jane " scene . 
thankfully , those aren't the exact words . 
however , i found it distracting that tarzan is going " ohh ohh ee ee " one second and then tells jane his name in this manly voice with perfect diction . 
how does he tell his name to another ape ? 
 " ohh ohh ee - tarzan - ee ee ohh ? " 
well , regardless of my picky nature , the romance actually works as only disney romance can : purely contrived , but for some reason rather believable . 
but hey , tarzan's a young adult . 
do you think he dated a few of the female apes before meeting jane ? 
isn't that illegal in most countries ? 
oh , well . 
i don't think disney will be using my quote anymore . 
tarzan departs from the usual disney feature in that this one is not a musical . 
there's lots of music to be sure , but not a single character song in the whole hour and a half of running time . 
we instead get more of a phil collins concert , as no less than five of his original songs are used as interlude material . 
this isn't really a bad thing , as the songs are very high-energy and catchy ( i found myself singing one to myself for most of the following day ) ; it's just different . 
do yourself a favor and see this film in a theater with a good sound system , because the music will come through astonishingly well and really enhance the movie . 
with each new feature , disney animation gets even better . 
not necessarily by leaps and bounds , but since they put out a new film each year , a steady rate of improvement is apparent , and this definitely shows in tarzan . 
there are a couple of scenes where the animation achieves a near 3-d effect , and a number of scenes which feature tarzan moving through the trees are absolutely dizzying . 
the way he slides down tree limbs and trunks is very reminiscent of skateboarding and rollerblading maneuvers , and had me thinking this isn't just tarzan , it's " extreme tarzan . " 
however , tarzan does not seem to have what i call its " chandelier scene , " which is the one scene to which the animators have chosen to devote an inordinate amount of effort , utilizing a computer-assisted process that makes the animation absolutely breathtaking . 
lasting but a few seconds at most , it's been the signature of nearly every disney animated feature since beauty and the beast , in which the castle ballroom chandelier was rendered in stunning detail . 
as usual , the voice talent is up to snuff , convincingly make you believe in the convictions of animated characters . 
the one poor choice in casting , however , was rosie o'donnell . 
going into the film , i didn't know she was even a part of it , but when terk started talking , i recognized her voice immediately . 
her performance was fine , but through the rest of the film i kept thinking , " that's no boy ape , that rosie o'donnell . " 
distracting to say the least . 
i'll admit i've never read the edgar rice burroughs story " tarzan of the apes , " so i couldn't tell you how true this film stays to the book . 
but unless you're a purist , you should have few objections to this film . 
with solid performances , action , adventure , a bit of romance , and great music and animation , tarzan should appeal to the kids and to the kid in all of us . 
note : when i wrote my review of mulan a year ago , i went off on the promotional and merchandising tie-ins prevalent with the release of a disney animated feature . 
this time , i'll just say that i went to mcdonald's yesterday to treat myself to a mcflurry , and tarzan was on the cup . 
'nuff said . 
you've got mail is a timely romance for this impersonal , computer-driven decade . 
two people who've never met confide in each other via e-mail without revealing their true identities . 
nora ephron's contemporary update of the shop around the corner retains the basic plot : two people who despise each other unwittingly become enamored with each other through their anonymous correspondence . 
ephron , who co-wrote the film with her sister , delia , as well as directed it , knew what she was doing by reteaming tom hanks and meg ryan as the at-odds couple . 
ryan is kathleen kelly , owner of a small children's bookstore , while hanks is joe fox , who heads up a chain of mega bookstores ( think barnes & noble ) . 
their charm and chemistry are the glue that binds this film , even through some of the script's rough spots . 
for the ephrons invested so much effort in their protagonists that they give short shrift to the talented supporting cast , including parker posey , greg kinnear , jean stapleton and steve zahn . 
yet no one is really going to complain because the ephrons know their audience - and what the paying public wants is hanks and ryan . 
and the two are kept busy . 
one , the other or both are in nearly every scene . 
hanks has his decent guy routine down pat , yet each time he does it , it seems effortless , spontaneous and fresh . 
ryan smoothly moves between spunky and vulnerable , with a sexy touch of winsomeness added to the brew . 
their scenes together sparkle , even though they lack the nostalgic romanticism of sleepless in seattle . 
and the shadow of that earlier hit hangs over you've got mail like dried-up mistletoe . 
the sparks created by the earlier movie are , by necessity , not evident here . 
true , these are two people seeking true love , but you've got mail is more comic and less poignant than its predecessor . 
the ephrons' script is witty and sharp . 
however , as a director nora ephron is a bit uneven . 
some scenes drag , while others , especially when hanks and ryan are revealing their souls via e-mail , are crisp and tidy . 
also , the script gets sloppy toward the end with characters merely disappearing from the story . 
a nice , romantic soundtrack adds to this date-night special . 
overall , you've got mail is a lush and cute outing , taking advantage of the star appeal of its two leads . 
it's a nice holiday movie , one for holding hands and snuggling . 
committed to lifelong learning through effective communication 
according to hollywood movies made in last few decades , life in small town is one of the worst things that could happen to a human being . 
even worse fate awaits those who were unfortunate to grow up in those dark , god-forsaken places and later forced to live forever traumatised by the experience . 
on the other hand , it seems that something more than atlantic ocean divides europe from america , because one of the most popular and beloved european films takes exactly the opposite view . 
this film is amarcord , 1974 comedy by famous italian director federico fellini , which later gave inspiration to numerous imitations and homages , and even led few american screen artists to adopt its heretical views about benefits of small town life . 
the film is based on the screenplay by fellini and tonino guerra and it lacks the plot in usual sense . 
instead we follow one year in 1930s italian summer resort town of rimini through the series of short vignettes that depict various local events and customs , as well as series of local , often very colourful characters . 
although many of those characters occasionally take the role of narrator , movie concentrates on its nominal protagonist , 14-year old boy titta ( played by bruno zanin ) and chronicles his sexual frustrations , obsession with local beauty queen named gradisca ( played by magali noel ) , problems in his lovingly dysfunctional family , as well as troubles his father ( played by armando brancia ) have with mussolini's fascist regime . 
amarcord was often noted as the ultimate nostalgia film , and it probably explains why it is very popular , even among those people who actually don't like federico fellini's work very much . 
every member of its potential audience would find part of himself or herself in this film , because fellini in this film clearly illustrates natural human desire to paint past in the best way possible . 
distortion between actual past and its subjective interpretation could be found even in the title of the film - word " amarcord " is nothing more than badly pronounced phrase " i remember " in local italian dialect . 
in the same way the word is distorted , so is the past in memories of those who remember it . 
after the premiere , fellini rejected any claims about autobiographical character of this film , but it doesn't matter whether rimini of amarcord actually resembles rimini of fellini's childhood or not ; any place and any time could resemble characters and situations of this film . 
fellini's views on nostalgia are clearly illustrated with a way he mixes reality and fantasy in this film . 
even the most naturalistic scenes are laced with dark humour and grotesque images . 
characters look like caricatures , actors playing them often deliberately overact , and women , especially those who fuel titta's sexual fantasies , often have certain body parts with gargantuan proportions . 
every now and then , scenes that depict 1930s reality gradually slide into fantasies of movie's characters and rimini becomes almost indistinguishable from the magical place in characters' visions . 
because of that , almost everything in this film looks different , and in most cases better , than it would have looked in the real life . 
even the fascism gets fellinian make-over - fellini views mussolini's totalitarian regime as nothing more than visual spectacle ( explaining why similar regimes enjoyed such popular support throughout history ) and opportunity for comedy . 
when fascists finally show their true colours and begin torturing their opponents , even this becomes opportunity for scenes of macabre humour . 
unlike many of his italian colleagues in 1970s , who had used 1930s period setting to explicitly condemn fascism and serve fashionable political agenda , fellini doesn't care that much about politics . 
lack of self-righteous moral perspective is compensated with fellini's humanistic approach to his characters . 
each of them , regardless of age , gender , social class or physical appearance , is given opportunity to express his or her views , dreams and fears . 
fellini treats all those characters with warmth and affection , even when he paints them as grotesque caricatures of real people . 
because of this warmth and democratic spirit , amarcord could be viewed as one of the most humane films of 20th century , and it keeps its general feel good atmosphere despite depicting having many uncomfortable , melancholic and even tragic moments . 
fellini couldn't produce such effects without using his own directorial talent that gave a very personal touch to this movie . 
vignettes aren't memorable because of the characters only ; fellini uses camera , painting film in bright colours , especially in the scenes that depict character's fantasies . 
fellini also knows how to use locations , whether such location happens to be luxurious hotel , bright-coloured beach or rural countryside . 
even the down-to-earth streets of rimini , where everyone knows everyone , gets magical dimension during the snowfall . 
on the other hand , lack of credible special effects somewhat diminished the same effect during the ocean liner scene . 
this atmosphere is also provided by incredible talent of composer and fellini's long-time associate nino rota . 
his amarcord theme is probably one of the most recognisable , most popular and most relaxing and uplifting pieces of film music ever produced . 
that music alone should be the reason to view amarcord as one of the indisputable classics of seventh art . 
written by mark rosenthal and lawrence konner 
starring charlize theron , bill paxton , david paymer 
as reviewed by james brundage 
i'm beginning to get fed up . 
over my four years as a critic , the thing which has kept me going is the moderate balance of films . 
the good balances the bad . 
i try to see both in equal proportions . 
but disney's mighty joe young remake marks the fourth week in which i haven't seen a truly terrible movie . 
it's a backwards machismo , i suppose , the urge to see the things which you so loathe ; but i need to see a bad film every once in a while . 
and , you know what , mighty joe young doesn't qualify . 
far from being bad , mighty joe young is actually a family fun movie . 
it's enjoyable , appropriate , cute , cuddly , and all of those other things that i've been seeing in every movie since a bug's life . 
mighty joe young tracks a 2 , 000 pound gorilla in the wilds of africa that is taken to a reserve in . . . 
california ? 
 . . . 
for safe-keeping . 
okay . 
a little unrealistic , but who ever said a kid's movie had to have the slightest hint of realism . 
the first half of the movie is a gorillas in the mist-esque hatred of poachers woman-of-the-wild motif . 
the second half is a straight up parody of king kong , awestruck onlookers and all . 
mark one down . 
i'm feeling relaxed . 
it is , as a point of fact , an extremely un-creative movie . 
but , as a vetern , i can say quite honestly that creativity doesn't count for as much as it should . 
so that saves mighty joe from my wrath , although my colleagues and cohorts and surely bashing this film at this very moment . 
this is not the film to take a girl on a date to . 
it's not the film for you . 
it's the film for you and your family . 
when you're right alongside your kid , all of the normal rights and wrongs slip away . 
the same thing happens when you watch a horror movie or an action flick . 
it becomes fun . 
all you have to do to enjoy mighty joe young is shut up and watch . 
notting hill's trailer is awful : a laughless , schmaltzy montage . 
the movie was desperately marketed to the anti-phantom menace crowd , the same lovelorn females who ignored the love letter . 
and it apparently worked . 
perhaps the presence of julia roberts-whose allure beyond those perfect teeth still escapes me-had a lot to do with notting hill's opening weekend success , but the film's staying power is based on word of mouth . 
allow me to spread some more good buzz for notting hill . 
grant stars as william thacker , a travel-bookstore owner who works and resides in a tiny english district called notting hill . 
into his shop one day wanders famous actress anna scott ( roberts ) . 
a common thief , some spilled orange juice , and some stilted conversation leads to their first , highly impetuous ( or is that improbable ? ) , kiss . 
days later , william sneaks into her hotel suite under the guise of a magazine journalist , and so begins a passionate , albeit surreptitious , affair . 
 ( aside : notting hill's portrayal of press junkets is deadly accurate . ) 
only anna's celebrity-or william's lack thereof-threatens to drive a wedge between them . 
richard curtis has tapped into fantasy we all have considered , and for at least its first half-hour the picture's " beauty and the beast " -like scenario is ( romantic ) escapism of the highest order . 
as with groundhog day or pleasantville , while watching the high-concept comedy notting hill one constantly imagines him/herself in the lead ; it's william's ordinaryness that entices the spoiled and bored anna . 
curtis ( who previously penned four weddings and a funeral ) is also smart enough to know that the unlikely couple's situation is not enough to fuel two hours' worth of entertainment , so some of notting hill's finest moments revolve around william's eccentric friends and family . 
by now , dear reader , you've probably heard a lot about rhys ifans' performance as william's imbecilic welsh flatmate . 
yes , he's a crowd pleaser , a walking sight gag , but his character is not nearly as involving as the wheelchair-bound ( and appropriately named ) bella ( mckee , the anguished waitress of naked ) or max ( tom mcinnerny ) , her lousy chef of a husband . 
in the movie's best sequence , william , anna , and company sit around bloated from max's latest concoction and hold a contest : the last brownie on the table goes to the diner with the saddest life . 
the scene ends only as a british writer would end it . 
if anything , fantastic bits like these dull the main plot's dramatic impact . 
roberts and grant , especially , are appealing , but their relationship is convolutedly interrupted too many times ( four weddings' suffered similar flaws ) , and william and anna ultimately only have one thing in common : they're lonely . 
 ( worth noting in roberts' and grant's favour : the ubiquitous " i'm just a girl , standing across from a boy , asking him to love her " episode is not nearly so syrupy as it appears in clips , and it features some of the best emoting either actor has ever done . ) 
notting hill is nonetheless enjoyable ; on the visual side of things , i especially appreciated michell's playful changing-of-the-seasons number . 
if only ( and this is a surprisinly minor gripe ) he had lopped off the egregious epilogue ; for a story that thrives on what we bring to it , the filmmakers work too hard to tidy things up , leaving our imaginations in the lurch . 
[note that followups are directed to rec . arts . movies . current-films and rec . arts . movies . startrek . current 
only , not to rec . arts . sf . movies . 
-moderator] 
star trek : first contact a film review by michael dequina copyright 1996 michael dequina 
star trek : first contact ( pg-13 ) anyone familiar with the series of star trek movies knows of the " even-odd pattern " --the even-numbered installments of the series are good while the odd-numbered ones are , well , not-so-good . 
the pattern continues with the new star trek : first contact , an energetic sci-fi adventure that ( coincidentally ? ) is the eighth entry in the hugely popular series . 
in this first trek feature to feature only cast members from the late star trek : the next generation television series , captain jean-luc picard ( patrick stewart ) and the rest of the 24th-century crew of the starship enterprise--commander will riker ( jonathan frakes , who also directed ) , android lt . cmdr . 
data ( brent spiner ) , lt . cmdr . 
geordi laforge ( levar burton ) , lt . cmdr . 
worf ( michael dorn ) , dr . beverly crusher ( gates mcfadden ) , and counselor deanna troi ( marina sirtis ) --travel back to 21st-century earth while doing battle with the borg , a race of cybernetic beings that share a collective mind with the borg queen ( alice krige ) . 
the borg intend to alter history and assimilate all of humankind into their race--starting with the earth-orbiting crew of the enterprise and a 21st century stowaway ( alfre woodard ) . 
this is an interesting plotline that is sure to mesmerize trekkers everywhere and engage everyone else , but , unfortunately , it only makes up the star trek half of the script by brannon braga and ronald d . moore . 
the other half of the title--first contact--refers to a subplot that takes place on 21st-century earth , where riker , troi , and laforge meet legendary scientist zephram cochran ( james cromwell ) , who is about to embark on the first warp speed flight in human history , which directly leads to the first contact with extraterrestrials . 
while this story does tie into the main plot and pays off interestingly in the end , it is nowhere near as involving or exciting as the borg battles on the enterprise . 
not helping matters is the tiresome cochran character , an eccentric whose drunken schtick starts out funny but becomes too one-note after a while . 
in the end , though , the first contact subplot doesn't detract from the enjoyment of the film as a whole . 
the story is typical sci-fi fantasy , but the conviction of the cast--most notably the always-phenomenal stewart--makes you believe and care . 
frakes , making his feature directorial debut , keeps the action swiftly rolling along and delivers the action goods , even upping the violence a notch ( this is the first trek film to bear a pg-13 rating ) to greater effect . 
st : fc has a bigger budget than the last trek outing , the middling star trek generations , and it definitely shows on screen--the production design and especially visual and makeup effects are outstanding ( in particular those involving the borg queen ) . 
braga and moore's mostly sharp script will please both trek devotees and the rest ; the references to the borg storyline in the tv series , the continuity with the previous film ( e . g . 
the ongoing saga of data's emotion chip ) , and a fleeting star trek : voyager crossover will make trekkers squeal with delight , but such points are made easily accessible to those less familiar to the trek mythos . 
paramount was reportedly worried about the staying power of its trek franchise with the next generation cast now carrying the helm . 
based on the entertaining success that is star trek : first contact , i'd say the studio has nothing to worry about ( at least not until this cast retires and the crew of the wan star trek : deep space nine takes over . . . ) . 
slavery is bad . 
after hundreds of years , we've finally figured that one out . 
this almost universal belief is the both the strength and weakness of director steven spielberg's latest " serious " film . 
during the late 1830s , a portuguese slave ship carries a cargo of black men and women kidnapped from their home on africa's west coast to cuba to be sold into slavery . 
fifty-three of them are stuffed into the " la amistad " ( from a spanish word for " friendship " ) by their new spanish owners . 
freeing himself from his chains , senge pieh ( djimon hounsou ) , renamed cinque by his masters , leads a bloody revolt . 
after killing most of the crew , the africans force the remaining sailors to return them to their home - or so they think . 
instead the ship heads up the coast to the united states . 
the amistad is boarded by an american naval ship and the revolutionaries are put on trial in connecticut for murder and piracy . 
the legal question becomes are they free men fighting justly for their freedom or are they property . 
if they are property , who do they belong to ? 
their masters ? 
the spanish government ? 
salvage rights of the officers who captured the ship ? 
the us government ? 
the defendants are pawns in several games . 
abolitionists theodore joadson ( morgan freeman ) and lewis tappan ( stellan skarsgard ) want to free them , but tappan sees them primarily as a means to further the cause . 
their lawyer roger baldwin ( matthew mcconaughey ) views the case as a simple one of property rights and a chance to make his share of legal fees . 
south carolina senator john c . calhoun ( arliss howard ) pursues the case for the political advancement of the southern states . 
president martin van buren ( nigel hawthorne ) is willing to force the result towards his own political ends . 
when the verdict looks to free the africans , van buren replaces the judge with one more sympathetic to his wishes . 
even that doesn't work and the new judge frees the kidnap victims . 
at the urging of calhoun , the president then appeals the case to the supreme court , populated by a majority of slave-owners . 
this little-known ( try finding it in any history text book ) incident from america's past would have gone down a darker path were it not for former president john quincy adams ( anthony hopkins ) who is persuaded to argue the case before the supreme court . 
the slavery issue is easy pickin's for spielberg . 
much like his " shindler's list " ( which followed " jurassic park " as this follows " lost world " ) , the moral sides are not difficult ones to choose . 
nazis and slave traders : both treat groups of others as less than human . 
it's not hard to see who the bad guys are . 
without that question to ponder , the director's job is more difficult . 
he has to make the story interesting . 
spielberg succeeds for the most part . 
the visual aspect of the film is beyond reproach . 
where the movie falls down is a bit more subtle . 
there are very few _people_ in the tale . 
in fact , cinque is the only character who is fleshed out . 
tappan and joadson are " abolitionists " : symbols but not humans . 
van buren is a weak politician but nothing else . 
the rest of the " slaves " barely exist other than dressing for the set . 
like many other films about people of color , almost all the major players are white . 
the film's salvation lies in the acting strength of everyone involved and the powerful presence of hounsou . 
the former model's first major role is a winner . 
without speaking more than five words of english , he conveys more emotion than most actors with a thousand lines of dialog . 
the other stand-out is hopkins who seems to be making a career out of portraying american presidents ( he also played the title role in " nixon " ) . 
the impassioned speech by the doddering old man who phases in and out of rationality is among the best court-room drama ever on the screen . 
there are some other great moments . 
especially impressive are the african's struggle to understand what is going on in the strange land . 
their interpretation of the bible based solely on the pictures and their own experiences is poignant . 
as grand as the epic is , it would have more impact had it focused more on the experience from the point of view of the africans . 
more humanity in the fight for humanity would have made it a four-star film . 
 ( michael redman has written this column for a real long time and is just now getting around to seeing some 1998 films . ) 
reflecting on " bedazzled , " a lively comedy about the devil who seeks to possess the soul of a pathetic loser , one sinful thought remains in my mind . 
if hell means having to spend an eternity with elizabeth hurley ( who portrays the fiery demon ) , then use that pitchfork and point me the way . 
with her pouty lips , irresistible british accent , and wild display of haute couture , hurley crackles with naughtiness and fills your mind with temptation . 
it's practically impossible to turn this beelzu-babe down . 
her next target is elliot ( brendan fraser ) , a tech support geek who is clumsy , awkward , and just too eager to please . 
to aptly picture him , you would have to remember a saturday night live skit featuring " steve the copy guy " who effortlessly irritated his co-workers with his unpolished social skills . 
eugene , thus , is loathed and feared by his co-workers , who do their best to stay out of his way . 
yet , beyond his annoying mannerisms , he's a lovable oaf . 
he wishes that he could get closer to allison ( frances o'connor ) , a co-worker with whom he is infatuated but who has never taken notice of him . 
however , the odds of him getting together with her are about the same as a snowball's chance in hell . 
 " dear god , " he prays . 
 " i would give anything to have that girl in my life . " 
guess who then shows up ? 
she makes an offer that is too hard to refuse . 
 " seven utterly fabulous wishes for one piddling little soul . " 
there's even an escape clause . 
if elliot's wish doesn't go exactly the way he likes , he need only 'beep' her ( one guess as to what the three-digit number is ) and he gets to start over . 
the remainder of the film consists of elliot's various fantasies that incorporate his personal desire to have enormous amounts of wealth , power , fame and allison's love . 
but when he makes sweeping statements such as " i want to be very , very powerful and very , very rich and married to allison " , he'll soon learn that the devil is in the details . 
for example , ( and we've seen this several times in the trailers ) , he is granted his wish , but finds out that he's a columbian drug lord and that allison , while married to him , has her eyes on someone else . 
apparently , the devil is just as eager to skew his fantasies as she is to possess his soul . 
his other wishes also end up with some strange but funny twist that short-circuits his new life . 
soon , elliot wishes that he had never made that deal . 
given the mischievous nature of the devil , " bedazzled " has many amusing moments . 
a lot of the credit goes to fraser who turns in a great comic performance . 
he ably assumes various personas . 
his funniest segment is when he wishes that he could be the most sensitive man in the world . 
allison becomes so frustrated with him that she practically urges him to take advantage of her . 
hurley also heightens the humor quotient , especially in the transitional scenes when fraser waits to start his next wish after bailing out of the previous one . 
it's clear that she's having a good time with it all . 
yet , while the filmmakers work hard at creating funny scenes , they conspicuously avoid developing the allegorical underpinnings between good and evil that could have added more heft to this story . 
but that would be playing with fire . 
what they've got works , so you can easily accept it for the pleasant little comedy that it is . 
the muppet movie is the first , and the best movie among the ever-growing list of muppet movies . 
the muppet movie tells the story of how our hero , kermit the frog , came to be a star . 
a delightful movie for all ages , the muppet movie is * bursting * with cameo appearances by countless hollywood stars of the 80's and today . 
the muppet movie begins in a movie theater , where all of the muppet stars are anxiously awaiting the first showing . 
once everyone is settled down , the movie inside of the movie begins . 
it starts out with kermit in a swamp , playing his banjo and singing ( this shot required jim henson to spend hours underwater ) . 
kermit is discovered by bernie , a big-time hollywood agent who happens upon kermit by accident . 
bernie believes that kermit holds much potential to become a big star in hollywood . 
kermit ponders the idea of becoming a big movie star , where he could " make millions of people happy " . 
kermit decides to leave his swamp and make the trip out to hollywood . 
along the way , kermit befriends his now famous muppet companions , beginning with fozzie bear , who had been spending his days doing stand-up comedy at the el sleezo cafe , owned by james coburn . 
the two decide to team-up and continue on their way to hollywood . 
but , doc hopper ( charles durning ) , the owner of a chain of french fried frog leg restaurants has a different idea . 
he wants kermit to be his spokesman , but kermit is humiliated at the idea and spends the movie avoiding him and his assistants . 
the trip continues , with kermit and fozzie meeting miss piggy , rowlf , gonzo , the electric mayhem band , and more muppets who all share the same wish : to make it to hollywood . 
oh , and even more celebrities continue to appear . 
kermit and miss piggy continue to get to know each other a little better , including a rather funny scene at a restaurant with steve martin as the waiter . 
eventually , kermit and the group make it to hollywood . 
that is , after kermit is finally able to elude doc hopper and proclaim his freedom . 
lord lew , a big-time hollywood producer portrayed by orson welles , gives kermit his shot at stardom and gives him the go-ahead to produce a movie . 
the muppet movie is definitely a movie that is fun for all ages . 
it is also a sure-deal as one parents can watch , and enjoy along with their kids . 
all great things come to an end , and the dot-com era embodies that perfectly . 
beneath a mound of bankruptcy paperwork lies the remains of a former dot-com darling , the company kozmo . com , 
an online convenience store stocked with ice cream , porn videos , and other basic necessities of a urban dweller , all hand-delivered by couriers within an hour . 
designed in 1997 by two college roommates -- joseph parks , a 27 year old goldman sachs banker , and yong kang - kozmo flamed out in three short years , raising more than $280 million in venture capital funding and from partnerships with such bigwigs as starbucks and amazon . com . 
by december 1999 , the company boasted 4 , 000 employees in 11 cities , its barking ceo park attracting all kinds of media attention . 
the company was set for an ipo in may 2000 . . . 
until april 14 , 2000 , the day the stock market took its first big dive , ending the internet era . 
by april 13 , 2001 , kozmo was out of money and ceased operations . 
unlike the earlier , similar documentary startup . com , which chronicled the rise and fall of another dot-com , govworks , e-dreams focuses both on its original founders , especially park , and on the common folks that ran the day-to-day operations . 
the contrast is amazing , showing how a cult persona can convince anyone that any idea is the next big thing . 
the film's director , wonsuk chin ( too tired to die ) , expertly juxtaposes upper management company meetings with on-the-spot interviews with the bike messengers , general managers , and floor staff that kept kozmo humming . 
the film's images give a backbone to the company and provide an emotional edge to its ultimate demise . 
the most satisfying part of the film comes in understanding , to a degree , the expectations of numerous ceos commanding these titanic-type businesses . 
in the film's final interviews with park , we learn what happens when the money dries up and backers don't return phone calls . 
in the end , the name of the game was profit , and if you couldn't make money , even the dreamers got the axe . 
screened at the 24th annual mill valley film festival . 
since their film debut in 1984 with the tightly wrought texas thriller " blood simple , " joel and ethan coen have been one of the most eclectic , original , and downright fascinating creative teams in modern hollywood . 
their films are highly stylized , deeply embedded in a particular time and place , and their characters are more often than not everyday people who get caught up in highly unusual circumstances . 
in " the big lebowski , " their first cinematic offering since the multiple academy award-winning " fargo , " the action takes place in los angeles during the gulf war , and the hero of the story is jeff lebowski , aka the dude . 
the dude is played by jeff bridges -- one of hollywood's most underrated actors -- in the best stoned performance since sean penn stumbled through the halls of ridgemont high . 
the dude is a simple man who has never quite made it out of the sixties . 
he has shaggy , shoulder-length hair , a grizzled goatee badly in need of a trim , and he wears mostly stained tee-shirts , long shorts , and gellies without socks . 
he smokes a lot of pot , drinks a lot of white russians , and is more than content to spend the majority of his time bowling with his two buddies , a slightly psychotic vietnam vet named walter sobchak ( john goodman ) and donny ( steve buscemi ) , one of those guys who always wants to be part of the conversation , but never quite makes it in . 
one day , the dude is confused with another jeff lebowski ( david huddleston ) , this one being a millionaire philanthropist whose trophy wife , bunny ( tara reid ) , owes a lot of people a lot of money . 
the main plot and all its accompanying side-plots and coenesque diatribes are far too complicated to get into here . 
suffice to say that the dude becomes deeply involved with the big lebowski when bunny is kidnaped and the dude is asked to be a courier for the ransom money . 
by the time all is said and done , walter has become deeply involved , as has the big lebowski's daughter , maude ( julianne moore ) , a feminist performance artist , a pornographer named jackie treehorn ( ben gazzara ) , and a group of german nihilists led by peter stormare , who was so great as the silent but deadly kidnaper in " fargo . " 
 " the big lebowski " plays like an amalgam of all the coen brothers' earlier efforts . 
it shares their previous films' strong sense of time and place , as well as their send-ups of movie genres and political and cultural ideologies . 
 " lebowski " has the same kind of crazed caricatures that made " raising arizona " such a hoot ; it has surrealistic dream sequences ( one of which involves a busby berkley-like dance number ) that characterized the ending of " barton fink " ; and it has the same kind of cartoonish look and feel that pervaded " the hudsucker proxy . " 
the film was shot by veteran cinematographer roger deakins , who has worked with the coens on three other films , " barton fink , " " the hudsucker proxy , " and " fargo . " 
deakins always gives the coens' films a distinctive visual style , and here he does a brilliant job of capturing the bright colors of seedy los angeles in the early nineties , whether that by the obnoxious blue bowling suit worn by the dude's main competitor jesus quintana ( john turturro ) , or the strikingly manic dream sequences , one of which involves the dizzy spectacle of watching a strike from a bowling ball's point of view . 
if " fargo " was the coen brothers' most restrained effort in years , " the big lebowski " marks their return to over-the-edge filmmaking . 
it is overflowing with style and attitude , which helps make up for the scattered plot fragments that never quite come together in the end . 
the coens fill the screen with lighting , set design , music , and hilarious performances from all the leads , especially bridges and the always reliable john goodman , who shows real comic timing in his untimely 'nam-inspired outbursts and his intense dedication to his adopted judaism . 
with joel directing , ethan producing , and both writing , the coen brothers seem limitless in their capacity to turn our world inside out . 
their talent lies not in their ability to reflect the norms of reality , but in their potential to dig out the darkest corners of life and bring them to light . 
the coens rejoice in the oddballs of the world , and they put them center-stage to show that it's not just guys like the dude who are nuts , but the entire planet . 
lean , mean , escapist thrillers are a tough product to come by . 
most are unnecessarily complicated , and others have no sense of expediency -- the thrill-ride effect gets lost in the cumbersome plot . 
perhaps the ultimate escapist thriller was the fugitive , which featured none of the flash-bang effects of today's market but rather a bread-and-butter , textbook example of what a clever script and good direction is all about . 
the latest tony scott movie , enemy of the state , doesn't make it to that level . 
it's a true nineties product that runs like greased lightning through a maze of cell phones and laptop computers , without looking back . 
although director scott has made missteps in the past , such as the lame thriller the fan , he's generated a good deal of energy in pictures like crimson tide and top gun . 
that vibrant spirit is present here , shown in well-timed and carefully planned chase scenes that give the movie an aura of sheer speed . 
enemy of the state also features an unprecedented use of amazing cinematography -- director of photography daniel mindel throws a staggering amount of different views , angles , lenses , and film stocks at the audience that goes a long way toward involving the audience in the movie . 
enemy is truly a visual experience , and that's only one of the reasons it's such a fun watch . 
the movie lights up with an aging senator visited by nsa deputy chief thomas reynolds ( jon voight ) . 
reynolds wants a new communications act passed to allow the government free reign in the use of surveilance equipment , but the senator plans to bury the bill in committee . 
reynolds has the senator offed , but not before the murder is caught on a naturalist's camera . 
by an extremist chain of events , the tape ends up in labor lawyer robert dean ( will smith ) 's posession , and it's not long before he's running from reynolds' cronies . 
it's only with the help of an ex-spook named brill ( gene hackman ) that dean is able to get to the bottom of things . 
the acting is top notch , and the three principles - smith , hackman , and voight - are generally more mature and excellent all around . 
smith puts aside the wisecracking act and becomes a normal human being ; voight tones down the amount of sneer he puts into his character for greater ominpotence ; and hackman is simply over the top in the mysterioso role . 
smith's regular joe comes off particularly well , as he runs from authorties for reasons that he knows not . 
the supports are also in fine form , lending credibility to the main roles and advancing the plot in key areas . 
this is , for the holiday crowd , the hot ticket ; as well as anyone looking for a serving of genuine action in a market that is otherwise lacking . 
this film is based on the campy tv show from the 1960's under the same appellation . 
mind you , most people ( including yours truly ) who will see this movie will not have seen any episodes from the original series . 
the movie is really a stand alone in that regard . 
the family robinson . . . lost in space . 
plot : set in the year 2058 , the family robinson is chosen to sail out into space in search of other planets that might contain the natural resources earth needs in order to survive its future . 
a colonization process , if you will . 
they are joined by able pilot west ( leblanc ) , and evil uninvited stowaway ( oldman ) , who does not want to see the trip conclude on a successful tip . 
eventually , their trek goes awry , and all are " lost in space " . 
 " how do get back to earth ? " 
is the question that infests the rest of this sci-fi epic . 
critique : this film reminded me a lot of the fifth element ( 6 . 5/10 ) from the summer of 1997 . 
it's a film with a lot of flash , but very little actual substance . 
admittedly , there isn't an annoying character like chris tucker from the other film , but this film does run a little too long , and did lose me in regards to its complex time-travel / multi-dimensional story line . 
having said that , the special effects in this movie were amazing , and the overall look and feel were also way above average . 
you really felt like you were in the future , and riding through space with these poor souls . 
unfortunately for this chosen family , their 10-year old son is the smartest one in the group , and the father is too wrapped up in his work to notice the rest of his family ( ever heard that one before ? 
yawn ! ) . 
the acting is ok , and i was especially surprised at the solid performance by tv friend's matt leblanc who shows us all that he's definitely more than just a pretty face . 
on the down side , the family riff-raff that cuts through most of the picture is lame and time-consuming ( even though we gotta give them credit for " trying " to develop characters in a sci-fi pic ) , the story line is hard to follow , the evil character in the movie actually tells people that he's " evil " , and the movie goes on for about 20 minutes too long . 
on the slick side , many of the special effects are really cool ( the sequence in which the family is " paralyzed " during the hyper-drive is awesome , and the animated monkey that joins the family halfway through the flic is mucho cool ) , the credit presentation at the end of the film is slamming , and the adventures that they fall into are somewhat thrilling ( i will also admit that " somehow " they got me to semi-tear up near the conclusion of this picture . . . . very 
odd . . . . . ) . 
overall , if you're a big sci-fi fan , check this movie out for the special effects and challenging narrative , and if you're not , i would still suggest seeing this movie , but then you could probably wait until it comes out on video so that you forward past some of the boring parts . 
little known facts : this film will always be remembered as the movie that knocked titanic ( 7/10 ) out of the top spot at the box-office after 15 straight weeks at number one . 
garry oldman is british , and was once married to uma thurman for about six months . 
mimi rogers was tom cruise's first wife . 
1992's alien3 marked not only the death ( by suicide ) of its popular protagonist , ellen ripley ( sigourney weaver ) , but , in many ways , the alien franchise itself--box office receipts were anemic , thanks to poor audience word of mouth ; and the critics who rallied around the first two installments , 1979's alien and 1986's aliens , savaged david fincher's slog of a sendoff ( myself included ) . 
hence , weaver , director jean-pierre jeunet , and the others behind alien resurrection faced a two-fold challenge--not only somehow resurrect ripley , but also rescue this once-profitable series from the scrap heap . 
despite the odds , they have succeeded , even if the entertaining new installment does not measure up to the excellent first two . 
writer joss whedon devises a quick , easy , and painless answer to the dead ripley problem--clone her , which is what shady military scientists do using some blood left behind on fiorina 161 , the prison planet of the third film . 
that done , the _real_ challenge presents itself--what do with her . 
alien introduced ripley as smart and resourceful ; aliens simultaneously toughened her up and made her more vulnerable , exploring her maternal side ; alien3 saw her undergoing the seven stages of death . 
what could be next ? 
whedon comes up with a clever spin : since the original ripley died while impregnated with an alien queen , the blood used for the clone is also " infected " with alien dna . 
so the new ripley is , indeed , new--a human/alien hybrid blessed with heightened instincts and strength , a psychic bond with the deadly species , and a more predatory attitude . 
unfortunately , that is where alien resurrection's clever streak in writing stops . 
the alien series is known for having stronger stories than most creature features . 
but the story in resurrection is more of an afterthought . 
the movie begins with a plot involving some military types attempting to train aliens to do their bidding , but once the creatures break free , it is once again ripley and a ragtag crew ( this time a bunch of interstellar smugglers , including tough waif call , played by a game winona ryder ) trying to exterminate them . 
and the alien ripley scenario is ultimately not exploited to its full potential ; i would have liked deeper exploration into the quandary of becoming one of the species she has spent her entire life trying to destroy . 
while the settling into tried-and-true formula is a little disconcerting , the formula is tried-and-true for a reason , and jeunet tackles the proceedings with giddy abandon . 
the alien , after all these years , is still terrifying , and a new breed that is introduced is no less so . 
the violence is appropriately grisly and extreme , and the action set pieces are suspenseful and exciting , most notably an extended underwater sequence . 
the film is absolutely mesmerizing visually , thanks to the solid work done by production designer nigel phelps and cinematographer darius khondji . 
as technically adept as jeunet's direction is , perhaps his ( and , for that matter , whedon's ) greatest contribution is the infusion of humor into this notably downbeat and serious series . 
a sense of humor may seem to go against everything this horror show stands for , but the self-awareness of the excess just adds to the fun . 
no , alien resurrection is not the great film that ridley scott's alien or the even greater film that james cameron's aliens was . 
but after the dauntingly slow gloom and doom of fincher's alien3 , jeunet's resurrection is a welcome return to its roots as a wild , reckless thrill ride . 
that is what made the alien series so popular in the first place , and that is what will keep the series popular in any future installments . 
most sequels don't do what they're supposed to do like " toy story 2 " does . 
far too many of them end up re-hashing the original and adding very little . 
is it any wonder that most sequels fail to live up to their predecessors ? 
thankfully , " toy story 2 " is a wonderful exception . 
i can't remember the last time i saw a sequel as consistently fun and inventive as this one . 
it's yet another sign that pixar , the acclaimed animation studio behind " toy story " and " a bug's life , " is still at the top of its game . 
woody and buzz are back in the sequel to the 1995 hit " toy story , " and things have changed a bit since the last one ended . 
woody ( voiced by tom hanks ) is preparing to leave with his owner andy for cowboy camp . 
in his absence , he has assigned buzz lightyear ( tim allen ) , now comfortable in his role as a toy , to take charge . 
unfortunately , woody's trip is ruined when he is accidentally put into the family garage sale , and is stolen by an over-zealous toy collector ( wayne knight ) . 
off to save him are buzz and members of the old " toy gang , " including mr . potato head ( don rickles ) , rex the nervous dinosaur ( wallace shawn ) , hamm the piggy bank ( john ratzenberger ) , and slinky dog ( jim varney ) . 
while in captivity , woody makes a startling discovery : he is actually part of a collection of toys based on a 1950's children's show entitled " woody's roundup . " 
he meets the show's other characters , which include jesse ( joan cusack ) , his cowgirl sidekick , the wise old prospector ( kelsey grammer ) , and bullseye , his trusty horse . 
they have all been anxiously awaiting woody's arrival , as once their set is completed , they will be sold to a japanese toy museum , and finally escape storage forever . 
this means woody now faces a difficult choice . 
with his friends coming to rescue him , does he go with them and spend a few more years with andy , or does he go to japan and be immortalized forever ? 
as in the original film , " toy story 2 " contains first-rate animation , and pixar studios has done a remarkable job improving on the impressive work they did there . 
reportedly , the film was originally slated for a direct-to-video release , but after seeing the improvements that had been made , disney rightly decided to release it into theaters . 
the film is well worth seeing on the big screen . 
the colors are bright , the textures sharp , and even the human characters look more " human . " 
the animation is consistently seamless , with the action fast and furious and the facial expressions believable . 
there are so many impressive sequences that i'd find it impossible to list them here , but i was particularly wowed by a scene where buzz and his cohorts must get across a busy intersection to get to al' s toy barn , the store owned by woody's captor . 
pixar's rendition of the family dog is also nicely done , with fur so realistic you almost feel you could reach out and touch it . 
the voice work is also perfectly complementary , and as with the first movie , does much to help further character development . 
tom hanks and tim allen again disappear into their roles as woody and buzz , making you forget who is doing the voice . 
it was woody and buzz up there , not tom and tim . 
all the cast members from the original reprise their roles , and each is excellent . 
several new voices have been added , with joan cusack , kelsey grammer , and wayne knight doing fine work . 
 " toy story 2 " is strong in characterization , and is able to expand on what we saw in the first movie . 
woody faces difficult choices , while buzz is confronted with a new buzz who hasn't yet realized his status as a toy , forcing him to see what he used to be like . 
the new characters are also developed quite well , especially jesse , who narrates a sarah mclachlan-aided flashback illustrating how she was loved , then forgotten by her owner . 
it may be computer-animated , and it may have sappy music , but it's downright touching . 
the script , despite having a story and screenplay each credited to four different writers , is endlessly clever and inventive , especially considering that it's a sequel . 
the reason " toy story 2 " works where other movie sequels fail is that it refuses to just capitalize on the original's success by re-doing the same story and using the same characters . 
not this one . 
we get character change , new characters , and new issues brought up . 
 " toy story 2 " is also remarkable for the way in which it keeps reinventing itself . 
there is always another clever idea waiting just around the corner here . 
the humor is sharp and witty , with something to amuse both kids and adults . 
there are funny asides to films such as " star wars " and " jurassic park , " among others , new takes on classic toys like barbie and rock 'em sock 'em robots , and appearances from other pixar efforts " a bug's life " and the 1997 short " geri 's game . " 
 ( geri himself makes an appearance as a toy repairman who fixes woody's broken arm . ) 
the action is fast and furious , and the chases ( in the street , in a toy store , in an elevator , on a baggage carousel , and in an airplane ) keep getting bigger and better . 
 " toy story 2 " never grows stagnant , because there is always something new to hold your interest . 
the more you pay attention to it , the more rewarding it is . 
it's rare to see a film like " toy story 2 " come along , because it's the kind of film that's almost impossible to dislike . 
it's created purely to entertain , and though i enjoy a thought-provoking drama as much as the next person , it's nice to see that films are still trying to do exactly what movies first tried to do : send us out with a smile . 
it's a fair bet that the whole family will have smiles on their collective faces after seeing " toy story 2 . " it's the rare sequel that manages to expand on , and live up to , the original . 
expectation rating : a bit worse than expected ( mainly because i found the middle part to be a bit dull ) . 
roger ebert gave it a four star review , and while he is a critic that uses the full scale , and i often agree -- such as dark city being the best film of 1998 , he must have seen a better film . 
i read the book about five years ago and hugely enjoyed it . 
the opening of a simple plan reminded me a bit of the sweet hereafter . 
the landscape is snowy and cold , and is filmed what i feel is in a rather crisp manner ( which also reminds me of fargo ( which i loathed ) ) . 
one can almost sense the cold . 
but the movie far from the eye popping delights of the quick and the dead , instead raimi has made a more constrained film -- which probably is for the better . 
this is probably not a movie that would have been improved by lots of odd shots . 
the movie also reminded me of affliction , as the lead characters all seem to be hoping for and seeing a possibility to lead a better life than their father , and they see a chance for such a dream to come true . 
this chance is uncovered in a snow covered field , where an airplane has crash landed . 
in the plane three men find ? the american dream . . . 
in a gym bag . ? 
affliction too was set in a snowy landscape . 
it really seems very simple . 
just hold on to the money until spring , and if no one claims it , they'll be safe to spend it and their hope of experiencing the american dream can come true . 
but the snow melts , and so might several of the character's hopes . 
as in ? return to paradise ? , some of the characters are presented with a chance to do the right thing . 
but doing the right thing might not result in a better result than something more selfish . 
the movie's biggest strength is that it fact makes sense . 
i have seen many movies based on books that just seem like selected scenes from the book visualized , eschewing anything remotely resembling a coherent story -- for example clear and present danger . 
the biggest problem seems to over-familiarization with the story . 
the writer perhaps feels that he doesn't have to present scenes that are clear to him , but the lack of which only baffles an audience which has not read the book . 
this is definitely not the problem with a simple plan , even though the screenplay is by the book's author . 
the movie is always clear on where it's going , and always makes sense . 
i'm sue a lot was cut , but really i can't remember what . 
even a minor scene involving a man complaining that he has paid for too much grains is included . 
the man only comes in on mondays , but he claims that he has been charged for one purchase too many . 
turns out . . . 
well , see the movie . 
one should be warned against seeing the trailer . 
it reveals several scenes from the ending moments ( which yes , like in the book , it is a downer ) , several plot developments , and much of the beginning . 
but much of this is not spelled directly out during the trailer , so if you're lucky , you'll have forgotten about all of this when you see the movie . 
it is simply amazing how " the green mile " developed in its three hour running time . 
based on the stephen king series of the same title , the film starts out painfully slow , with underdeveloped characters and idiotic dialogue . 
however , as the plot begins to progress , the film turns into pure perfection with outstanding performances and wonderful direction . 
frank darabont , who masterfully followed a prisoner's story in " the shawshank redemption " , this time follows the perspective of a prison guard , paul edgecomb ( tom hanks ) . 
through edgecomb's experiences on a cell block known as the green mile where death row prisoners wait and repent , the audience sees good and evil on both sides of the law . 
from an evil prison guard to an evil prisoner , " the green mile " is successful in creating sympathy for kind-hearted hard working guards and hard thinking prisoners . 
the plot follows edgecomb and four other guards as they meet a variety of prisoners and after having strong relationships with each eventually are forced to execute them . 
the performances by veterans and new comers to back up these original characters are superb . 
the ensemble acting in the film is perfect . 
hanks , david morse and barry pepper as guards are wonderful and are fitting for their roles . 
they are the characters we most relate to because of their calm less extreme roles . 
they are given the positions to make rational decisions at difficult times and they are the ones who fulfill the demands of the audience . 
the more unique characters perfectly create friction on the green mile and make the story interesting and exciting . 
some particularly note worthy roles of the unique characters include doug hutchinson , sam rockwell , and michael duncan . 
hutchinson , playing percy wetmore , a cowardly guard who hides his true feelings by tormenting others gives the greatest performance of the movie . 
every time he appears on the screen , the attitude of others is very uncomfortable and the creepy expressions he is able to create are effectively terrifying . 
it would come as no surprise if hutchinson was nominated for an academy award as best supporting actor , not only because he did a wonderful job as wetmore , but also because he stole every scene he was in away from veteran oscar winner tom hanks . 
rockwell , an independent film veteran , plays his role as wild bill wharton to perfection . 
as a prisoner who taunts and harasses the guards at all hours , he really gets under your skin and irritates you for having to watch him torture others . 
this irritation he creates makes his performance so believable . 
the last noteworthy performance belongs to duncan , as the enormous convicted killer john coffey who happens to hold the power of curing the ill . 
duncan does a wonderful job playing a frightened child-like behemoth , very similar to lennie small in of mice and men . 
his desire for love and the extinction of hate evokes the most compassion because it is very obvious that he is suffering for no just cause . 
his pain creates pain for the viewer . 
however , it takes over an hour for duncan to be introduced completely in the film . 
the film opens with a ridiculous present day setting which contains a scene that jabs at " the jerry springer show . " 
the scene , containing one old man complaining about how all guests on the show are inbred and rednecks . 
not only is this observation entirely pointless and out of place , but it is also hackneyed beyond all belief . 
as the film flashes back to 1935 , graham greene is quickly executed without any introduction . 
his death seems very rushed and without any knowledge of who he is , the scene is neither sad nor convincing . 
greene is not even given a final word , like some of the other characters , and we don't even see him walk the infamous green mile . 
however , as the film begins to specifically introduce more characters , such as coffey and eduard delacroix ( michael jeter ) as well as the five prison guards , the film becomes more interesting . 
the speed in " the green mile " is perfect . 
if time was a matter of concern and the film was edited to the two hour mark , it would have been unsatisfactory because we would not be able to know the characters as they are or as they treat others . 
the three hour running is perfect for plot development and by the end of the film , a great amount of love or hate is attached to each character . 
 " the green mile " is so good following the rough beginning , that when the pivotal moment at the very end finally comes , it is almost impossible not to feel some sort of sadness for every person in this scene . 
fighting back tears was a difficult task that i barely succeeded in doing . 
if you survive the first third of " the green mile " sit back and enjoy the remainder for some priceless entertainment . 
the jekyll and hyde story told from his maid's point of view is , in a word , " dark " . 
you wouldn't expect something bright and cheery based on robert louis stevenson's novel , but the film is surprisingly dreary and dismal . 
jekyll/hyde ( john malkovich ) is terminally depressed and desperate . 
mary reilly ( julia roberts ) is a victim of monstrous child abuse and the anti-woman sentiment of the times . 
director stephen fears' version of the london slums makes us marvel that anyone survived them . 
the lighting level is exceedingly low throughout the movie : it almost appears to be filmed in black and white . 
the direction and cinematography are brilliant and liquid . 
scenes flow into the next scene like honey oozing off a strawberry . 
 ( except there's no red , of course . ) 
the look is so moody and melodramatic that you'll be shocked when you leave the theater . 
i saw it at a matinee and took quite a while to adjust to the sunny skies afterward . 
often the jekyll and hyde archetypes are viewed as splitting a whole person into components of good and evil or perhaps cerebral and emotional parts . 
here the doctor is intellectual and perhaps good , but certainly powerless . 
his alter ego is forceful and totally without conscience . 
two parts that make up a whole . 
neither are capable of functioning without the other and once separated , disaster is inevitable . 
the differences between the two characters would be more effective if it were accomplished by demeanor and attitude . 
when we finally see the transformation , the special effects thrust the story into the realm of science fiction , not the psychological horror that the tale demands . 
roberts and malkovich are skillful in their roles . 
both are suitably melancholy , fitting in with the rest of the film . 
the only flash of life and color comes from glenn close ( and her lips ) as the madam of a whorehouse where hyde lives , and surprisingly , jekyll apparently frequents . 
life and color maybe , but this is not close's best role . 
she seems little more than a cardboard cutout character . 
a beautiful film in its own dreary way . 
you'll appreciate the filmmaking craft , but don't expect to leave in an upbeat mood . 
aggressive , bleak , and unrelenting film about an interracial couple , steve and sam ( damon jones and elexa williams respectively ) , who are viciously attacked in a parking garage one night by a gang of skinheads . 
the skinheads beat steve , then force him to watch as they brutally rape his girlfriend over and over again . 
when sam kills herself later that evening , steve decides that the skinheads must be taught a lesson . 
waiting seven months for the thuggish skinheads to forget about the incident entirely , steve shaves his head , dresses in combat boots and suspenders , tattoos his flesh with nazi symbols , and tries to infiltrate the gang . 
as he gets closer and closer to the people who committed the horrible crime against his girlfriend , he begins to learn just how vicious these people really are and starts to question his own motives for violence . 
randolph kret's script , based on two real life incidents that affected not only his life but the life of the film's producer shaun hill , is an affront on violence and intolerance . 
the film causes its audience to be subjected to such brutality and ignorance that one can't help but be disgusted by the events presented within . 
i've seen it said that this is the film fight club should have been , but david fincher's film was trying to define a generation . 
kret's film is a wake up call to a generation and his message is a powerful one . 
if fincher is the kubrick of our generation , then kret is our d . w . 
griffith ( thematically speaking ) . 
there is not a single likable character in the film . 
the skinheads are obviously the most repulsive characters in the film , not only because of their beliefs but because they are in a constant state of fury ( not just against other races but within their own circles ) . 
the african-american characters in the film are constantly shown as sexually assaulting drug abusers who are always on a joyride looking for someone to accost . 
even gay men get in on the act , locating the skinheads' lair and beating them severely with lead pipes and other blunt objects . 
the main character steve is also unlikable because of the person he becomes just to seek out revenge . 
what all of this comes down to is the simple message that violence begets violence , and the constant clashes between factions will do nothing but continue the endless cycle of violence inherent in our society . 
the cast of this film is absolutely remarkable . 
damon jones shows a raw energy that many actors can't seem to summon these days and his performance seems nothing less than powerful . 
his initial reaction to hearing about his girlfriend's suicide is one of the most affecting scenes i have ever seen in a film . 
david lee wilson , who plays ( appropriately enough ) david lee is accurately evil as the second in command skinhead who also makes extra money performing oral sex on other men ( an irony that seems lost on the other skinheads ) . 
wilson's character is pure hatred and he brings out this hate perfectly . 
sadly , actor dave ward , who portrays the character of crew , will not be able to follow up his excellent performance as he was the victim of a vicious act of violence himself at the hands of a fellow actor during an incident of road rage . 
ward showed immense promise and he will be greatly missed . 
note : it is a shame that the filmmakers had to add a disclaimer to the end of the film stating that neither they nor the musicians contributing music for the film condone racism . 
the message about hatred couldn't be spelled out any more clearly than it is here , but there are those who would probably find this film much more akin to a training video than a condemnation . 
there are no " winners " at the end of this film either . 
no character gets his or her comeuppance and the ending leaves us almost right where we began . 
where american history x had redemption for most of its characters , no such victories are in store for pariah's band of twisted souls . 
it is this bleak ending that carries the film's most powerful message : the message that , despite what you may be able to momentarily do to put your own mind to rest , evil will still be with us ( and in many forms ) and there is very little than can be done to eradicate it entirely . 
gothic murder-mystery yarns are not a new conceit . 
in fact , they've been around in books and on film for many , many years . 
without the proper handling , they come off as old-fashioned , bland , and outdated . 
 " the gift , " directed by sam raimi , is a tried-and-true effort that surprises very little , and includes everything from a wide array of suspects and red herrings , to mansions in the deep south with moss trees out front , to the eventual discovery of a waterlogged corpse found in a nearby pond . 
it's fairly obvious who the killer is ; in fact , i predicted who it would be before the movie began and was correct in my preliminary suspicions . 
the film ultimately shouldn't work , but it does , thanks to a sparkling cast that fills each character with so many memorable nuances , the most fun to be had is in simply watching the people interact with each other . 
annie wilson ( cate blanchett ) is a recently widowed mother of three sons who makes her living giving psychic readings to the residents of her backwater southern hometown . 
some of her mainstay clients include valerie barksdale ( hilary swank ) , who is severely abused by her husband donnie ( keanu reeves ) , and buddy cole ( giovanni ribisi ) , an unstable mechanic who is confused by the nightmares he's been having about a mysterious blue diamond that is somehow linked to his father . 
for annie , she does not give the readings merely for money , but uses it as a way of seeking solace in finding the good in everyone's future . 
her late grandmother ( rosemary harris ) told her as a child that it was a gift she was given , and she should always remember that . 
when annie's eldest son is involved in a fight at school , she meets the nice-guy school principal , wayne collins ( greg kinnear ) , whom she finds herself attracted to . 
but wayne is engaged to the wealthy jessica king ( katie holmes ) , whom annie immediately gets a negative vibe about . 
at a party with her best friend linda ( kim dickens ) , annie stumbles upon jessica in a compromising position with lawyer david duncan ( gary cole ) . 
soon after , jessica has disappeared , leaving everyone in a frenzy over what could have possibly happened to her , and annie starts to have nightmares and apparitions linking jessica with the vicious redneck donnie barksdale , and the pond behind his home . 
 " the gift " may be cliched on a sheer storytelling level , but the performances and tight direction from raimi ( who has redeemed himself for his embarrassing last film , 1999's " for love of the game " ) lift the picture up several notches . 
slowly enveloping the viewer into the many intriguing characters and their individual plights , the disappearance of jessica at the 30-minute mark divulges the movie's true intentions and transforms the proceedings into a taut , at times frightening , horror-mystery . 
at the center of the film is the exceptional cate blanchett ( 1999's " the talented mr . ripley " ) , who turns annie wilson from what could have been little more than a run-of-the-mill protagonist into a very exact , down-to-earth , realistic person with valid troubles and a caring attitude towards those around her . 
blanchett takes the unextraordinary material and runs with it , giving the entire film a truly classy aura that it otherwise might not have had . 
we follow her at every turn because she is so mesmerizing , both as a character and an actress . 
blanchett isn't the only bright performer , as she is ably supported by one of the best casts of the year . 
in her first role following her oscar win for 1999's " boys don't cry , " hilary swank is excellent as the confused valerie , who seeks guidance from annie , but is too scared to take her biggest advice of all : to leave the grossly abusive donnie . 
as donnie , keanu reeves ( 2000's " the watcher " ) makes an utterly convincing backwoods meanie , so much so that it is difficult to believe he is an actor at all . 
for the often-criticized reeves , whose acting abilities have never been the best , this is the biggest compliment he could possibly get , and it is also one of the better performances he has given . 
giovanni ribisi ( 2000's " the boiler room " ) is heartbreaking as a mentally slow young man who sees annie as his only friend , and wants her to do nothing but help him understand why he is being plagued by bad dreams about his dad . 
in the small , but pivotal role of the sleazy jessica king , katie holmes ( 2000's " wonder boys " ) has turned in yet another stunning supporting turn . 
her promiscuous role of jessica is one she has never played before , and she is radiant in her few scenes . 
finally , kim dickens ( 2000's " hollow man " ) makes her usual strong impression as annie's spicy best friend , linda . 
the other notable aspect of " the gift " is its moody atmosphere that lays such a thickly foreboding air over every scene it's almost suffocating . 
thanks to cleverly construed editing by arthur coburn and bob murawski , and the successful use of different eerie sounds effects and a very good music score by christopher young , the movie not only achieves a scary undercurrent , but one that is filled with dread . 
helped along by a strong screenplay by billy bob thornton and tom epperson , which makes the most of its setting and delightful cast , " the gift " is that rarest of thrillers that actually thrills , and offers up a fair share of chills , too . 
it may not be groundbreakingly original , but it sure is an entertaining ride for the duration of its running time . 
one of the best things about my job is that , every so often , a film still catches me by surprise . 
 " spy kids " certainly did . 
an adventure story aimed primarily at children , the movie is smart , zippy fun . 
the production neither panders nor talks down to its audience . 
the brother and sister at the center of the tale are believable , likable kids and their parents are ? get ready for this ? intelligent , capable and loving . 
bathroom humor is kept to a minimum and the numerous well-staged action scenes avoid excessive violence . 
what a relief it is to be able to review an all-ages film on its artistic merits and not its ethics . 
consider the other pg rated " family friendly " movie in theaters now . 
 " see spot run " has a mother going out of town , leaving her son with an idiot neighbor . 
body function humor abounds , including a slapstick bit that has the adult male lead repeatedly falling in dog poop . 
what really disturbs me are the jokes that bookend the film . 
the story begins with a police dog capturing a mobster and biting off one of his testicles in the process . 
at the hospital , the doctors explain that they replaced the testicle with a metal ball and joke that the victim is lucky the dog didn't bit off the other one , because two metal replacement balls would clack together . 
of course , the movie ends with the dog biting off the remaining testicle and shows prisoners laughing at the criminal as he clacks past their cells . 
somebody clue me in ? when did genital mutilation become funny ? 
 " spy kids " is a welcome antidote to the repellent " see spot run , " using imagination instead of cruelty and crudeness . 
carmen ( alexa vega ) and her younger brother juni ( daryl sabara ) live in a beautiful seaside home with their parents , gregorio ( antonio banderas ) and ingrid cortez ( carla gugino ) . 
mom and dad are a sultry couple devoted to their children . 
what the kids don't know is that they are also former spies . 
once agents from different countries assigned to " erase " each other , they instead fell in love , married and retired to raise a family . 
needless to say , they get drawn back to the business . 
shortly into their first joint mission , they are captured and end up in the headquarters of fegan floop ( alan cumming ) , a foppish hybrid of willy wonka and pee wee herman who hosts juni's favorite tv show . 
but there is evil behind the scenes , as inventors prepare an army of robots disguised as children . 
papa gregorio has the device necessary to radically increase the efficiency of the creatures and the bad guys will stop at nothing to get it from him . 
back at home , " uncle " felix ( cheech marin ) shows up to reveal mom and dad's secret to the kids . 
after a brief respite at a safe house filled with enough cool gadgets for a dozen sharper image stores , carmen and juni set off to find their parents and save the world , zooming through the sea in a submarine pod that looks like a goldfish , while a slew of wicked people ( including teri hatcher ) chase them . 
during the course of their adventures , they get to use jet packs , electroshock bubblegum and super-computer sunglasses . 
they watch as secret agents are transformed into bizarre creatures with silly putty faces and used as background characters on floop's tv show . 
they deal with guards that have huge thumbs where their arms , legs and heads would normally be ( why are the guards so ineffective ? 
because they're all thumbs ! ) 
they move from one colorful locale to another , including a nifty virtual reality room reminiscent of the holodeck from " star trek . " 
the storyline is silly and convoluted , but even at its most dense , it is easier to follow than either " mission : impossible " movie . 
director robert rodriguez ( " from dusk to dawn " ) maintains a frenetic pace , with the whole film clocking in at a mere 86 minutes . 
a bit less action and a little more character development would have been nice , but he does provide enough quiet moments for viewers to become fully invested in the family . 
alexa vega and daryl sabara make an agreeable brother and sister team , squabbling the way kids do , but coming together when it counts . 
antonio banderas and carla gugino are even better as the parents ; they quickly establish and maintain a great lusty chemistry while keeping their tongues properly in cheek during the action scenes . 
even the usually irritating alan cumming has some nice moments ? a virtual cloud-backed chat between his character and juni is one of the best segments in the film . 
had rodriguez added a few more scenes like that , i would have enjoyed the film more ( and i definitely could have lived without the glaring product placement for a certain mc-ubiquitous company ) . 
regardless , " spy kids " is a hoot , offering fun for adults and children alike . 
and just think , they managed to do it without sacrificing a single testicle . 
of all the films i've come to see this year ( 1997 ) , i think only chasing amy had as many " laugh-out-loud " moments . 
i'm not saying that i was hysterically rolling on the floor while watching waiting for guffman , but my mouth burst open with at least a delighted guffaw at least every couple of minutes . 
and i think i'm the kind of person that laughs least at movies , even when i find them funny . 
usually all you can get out of me is a warm smile , so to get me laughing out loud , and so frequently , is a really good sign . 
waiting for guffman is the story of blaine , missouri , a town celebrating it's 150th anniversary , and the musical that is being put on for the big event . 
the play is being directed by corky st . clair ( christopher guest , who also wrote and directed this " mockumentary " as well as co-writing several original musical numbers ) , the effeminate broadway hopeful determined to make this production a smashing success . 
teaming up with st . clair are a handful of blaine residents : allan pearl ( eugene levy ) , a jewish dentist who spent his youth not as the class clown , but sitting right next to him and studying him , ron and sheila albertson ( fred willard and catherine o'hara respectively ) , a married couple setting their sights on hollywood , libby mae brown ( parker posey ) , the dense but fun queen of the dairy queen , and a few others . 
everybody in this movie is brilliant , absolutely so , but levy particularly stands out . 
these characters are portrayed with such saddening realism that you can't help but love them , as pathetic as they really are . 
although levy stands out , guest , willard , o'hara , and posey are all wonderful and definitely should be commended for their performances ! 
if there was an oscar for an ensemble performance , this is the group that should sweep it . 
some humor was a tad uneven from the rest of the film and , even after starting very humorously , they nearly lost me with the tad-too-long intros . 
as delightful as it was , it began to get monotonous . 
thankfully , just as your about to say " ok , maybe i should run to the bathroom " , they finally get past the intros and onto the rehearsal scenes . 
like a play , this film gives a very three-act feel , the intros ( funny , but almost too long ) , the rehearsals ( even funnier ) , and finally , the actual performance of the play ( excellent ! ) . 
like i said , each character really shines , even when done with a subtle approach . 
you can't really watch these people and not think they're real people ! 
even they way they talk , with awkward pauses and stumbles that don't feel staged at all , you feel like you're watching a real , albeit funny , documentary . 
and even with silly lyrics , the original songs when the play is finally put on , are absolutely wonderful ! 
as a word of note , despite it's " r " rating , waiting for guffman is really quite clean . 
this rating came from a brief , very brief use of the grand-daddy of all swear words . 
even if that really bothers you , let me say that it's not presented in a vulgar , cheap-laugh way . 
it's actually quite humorous and tastefully done ! 
it might be hard knowing what to expect with waiting for guffman . 
it's silly humor , but it's also so dry , subtle , and intelligently done that you're not insulted by it . 
it's always really nice to see a comedy that isn't all slapstick and vulgarity , and this film is one of the better ones of the better ones ! 
i'd recommend seeing it ! 
in essence , good will hunting is an ordinary story told well . 
taken as a whole , there's little that's special about this tale -- it follows a traditional narrative path , leaves the audience with a warm , fuzzy feeling , and never really challenges or surprises us . 
but it's intelligently written ( with dialogue that is occasionally brilliant ) , strongly directed , and nicely acted . 
so , while good will hunting is far from a late-year masterpiece , it's a worthwhile sample of entertainment . 
like scent of a woman , which was released around this time of the season five years ago , good will hunting is about the unlikely friendship that develops between a world-weary veteran and a cocky young man . 
the formula for the two films is similar -- both of the principals learn from each other as they slowly break down their barriers on the way to a better understanding of life and their place in it -- but the characters are different . 
al pacino's slade was a larger-than-life individual ; robin williams' sean mcguire is much more subtle . 
and matt damon's will hunting uses pugnaciousness to supplant the blandness of chris o'donnell's charlie . 
will is a troubled individual . 
as a child , he was the frequent victim of abuse . 
an orphan , he was in and out of foster homes on a regular basis . 
now , not yet 21 years old , he has accumulated an impressive rap sheet . 
he has a short temper and any little incident can set him off like a spark in a tinder box . 
but he's a mathematical genius with a photographic memory and the ability to conceive simple solutions to complex problems . 
while working as a janitor at mit , he delights in anonymously proving theorems on the math building's hall blackboards . 
then , one evening , his anonymity is shattered when professor lambeau ( stellan skarsgard ) catches him at work . 
will flees , but lambeau tracks him down . 
unfortunately , by the time the professor finds him , will is in jail for assaulting a police offer . 
the judge agrees to release will under two conditions : that he spend one day a week meeting with lambeau and that he spend one day a week meeting with a therapist . 
eventually , once several psychologists have rejected the belligerent young man , sean mcguire , a teacher at bunker hill community college , agrees to take the case . 
after a rocky start , the two form a rapport and will begins to explore issues and emotions he had walled up behind impregnable armor . 
and , as will advances his self-awareness in sessions with sean , he also learns about friendship from his buddy , chuckie ( ben affleck ) , and love from a harvard co-ed named skylar ( minnie driver ) . 
the script , by co-stars matt damon and ben affleck , is not a groundbreaking piece of literature , and occasionally resorts to shameless manipulation . 
the characters are well-developed , however , and there are times when the dialogue positively sparkles . 
at one point , will comments that a session with sean is turning into a " taster's choice moment . " 
later , will gives a brilliant , breathless diatribe against the nsa that has the rhythm of something written by kevin smith . 
 ( note : since smith co-executive produced good will hunting , it's not out of the question that he had some input into this scene . ) 
director gus van sant ( drugstore cowboy , to die for ) culls genuine emotion from his actors , and this results in several affecting and powerful scenes . 
there's an edginess to some of the sean/will therapy sessions , and the offscreen chemistry between matt damon and minnie driver ( who became romantically linked while making this film ) translates effectively to the movie -- the will/skylar relationship is electric . 
likewise , the companionability of damon and affleck is apparent in the easygoing nature of will and chuckie's friendship . 
many of the individual scenes are strong enough to earn good will hunting a recommendation , even if the overall story is somewhat generic . 
matt damon , who recently starred as the idealistic young lawyer in the rainmaker , is solid ( although not spectacular ) as will . 
minnie driver ( last seen in grosse pointe blank ) adds another strong performance to a growing resume ( and it's refreshing that she was allowed to keep her british accent rather than having to attempt an american one ) . 
the outstanding performance of the film belongs to robin williams , whose sean is sad and wise , funny and somber . 
arguably the best dramatic work in the actor's career ( alongside what he did in the fisher king ) , williams' portrayal could earn him a best supporting actor oscar nomination . 
adequate support is provided by ben affleck ( chasing amy ) and stellan skarsgard ( breaking the waves ) . 
like most of what comes before it , the ending of good will hunting is completely predictable . 
but meeting expectations and following a familiar path aren't always bad things in a movie , provided the film accomplishes those goals with a modicum of style and an attention to detail . 
good will hunting does both , and , as a result , earns a rating commensurate with the " good " in the title . 
clue is an unfairly ignored comedy , very similar to 1976's murder by death . 
this big screen version of the classic board game ( what's next . . . 
chutes and ladders : the motion picture ? ) is filled with slapstick antics and silly dialogue . 
the plot , for what it's worth , has all the characters from the game ( in this case , the names from the game are used as aliases ) meeting in an isolated mansion to confront mr . boddy ( lee ving ) , the man who's been blackmailing them all . 
when he turns up dead , everyone ( including the audience ) must figure out whodunnit . . . 
and in what room , and with what object . 
while not as witty as neil simon's murder by death , clue definitely has it moments . 
it has so many moments in fact that i use a lot of the lines from the film when i'm joking around with my friends . 
to this day , whenever someone says the phrase " well , to make a long story short " i have the follow up phrase " too late " ready to go . 
the cast ( all very good comedic talents ) play well off one another , while the late madeline kahn ( as the dark and sultry mrs . white ) sometimes steals the film away from the rest . 
and colleen camp , as the french maid yvette , displays some of her natural talents as well . 
clue is available on dvd from paramount home video . 
it includes the film in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 ( and is enhanced for 16x9 televisions ) and features the original theatrical trailer . 
a french language audio track is also available . 
the trailer holds up well considering most previews from that time do not , and it even includes a scene not in the film itself ( a scene that should have been in the film , as it's a good joke ) . 
also , the trailer is scored to the music from airplane ! , which was an interesting choice . 
when clue played in theaters , it ran with the gimmick of three different endings . 
if you wanted to see all three , you had to go to the movies three separate times . 
so when the film was released on home video , rather than releasing three separate videos , all three endings were included on one tape . . . 
the first two endings being " what if ? " 
endings and the third ending being the actual ending . 
now for the dvd release you get two choices . 
you can watch the film as it was presented on home video or you can select to watch it with one of the three endings randomly chosen for you . 
 ( note : there's an easter egg hidden in the disc pertaining to this . 
after watching the film with a randomly selected ending , when you return to the menu screen you will be able to highlight the large magnifying glass and select it . 
when you do , a secret menu opens , allowing you to watch any of the three endings by themselves . ) 
now while i applaud the effort of paramount here , as they clearly tried to do something special with the disc , it just doesn't work well . 
first , why not give the viewer the choice of what ending we want to watch ? 
maybe someone like myself who's seen the movie hundreds of times would like to sit down and show it to someone with the second ending only . 
i'm no technical dvd expert , but i can't imagine that being too hard to accomplish . 
secondly , the delay between when the film itself ends and one of the endings begins is too long and too obvious , thereby becoming a distraction right when you definitely don't need a distraction . 
finally , the back of the dvd case states " and now , with this special dvd version , you can see all 3 surprise endings " . 
i have no idea why they would word it that way , since that's not a special feature in the slightest . 
the video has been out for fifteen years now ( good lord , has it been that long ? ) and it's played on television with all three endings all the time . 
these are merely minor complaints however , seeing that i've watched the home video version hundreds of times and have no problem watching the film as such on the dvd . 
the picture and sound are wonderfully improved over my worn out vhs copy , and i'm thrilled that paramount agrees with me that clue is a film worthy of being preserved on this great digital format . 
[pg] 
the dream team is a thoroughly entertaining comedy featuring four loveable characters who just happen to be slightly insane . 
billy , played by michael keaton , is an extremely temperamental mental ward patient whose short fuse and violent tantrums tend to get him in trouble . 
christopher lloyd portrays henry , an obsessive-compulsive who requires that everything be neat , orderly , on schedule , and by the books . 
he thinks he's a doctor so he walks around wearing a suit and carrying a clipboard on which he constantly scribbles notes and files reports . 
jack , played by peter boyle , thinks he's jesus . 
and finally , there's stephen furst as albert , a chubby catatonic who speaks only in baseball and television phrases . 
the dream team follows the misadventures that beset the four-some when their psychiatrist , dr . weitzman , takes them out of the hospital for a field trip to yankee stadium . 
during a pit stop , they get separated from weitzman and are left to fend for themselves in manhattan . 
the movie's charm derives mostly from the camaraderie and chemistry between its delightful cast . 
the four leads in the film play off each other quite effectively ; they never miss an opportunity to argue , bicker , or insult one another . 
henry and jack , for example , fight over who's going to get to ride in the front passenger seat on the way to the game . 
the actors in the dream team have a lot of fun with their characters and with each other . 
michael keaton is well cast as billy ; he gives his cynical character considerable complexity . 
as the divinely jack , peter boyle succeeds in keeping his one-dimensional character funny and fresh . 
although stephen furst's catatonic character is cliched , the actor makes him sympathetic and endearing . 
while keaton , boyle , and furst are good , it's christopher lloyd who really makes the movie special . 
lloyd gives yet another outstanding comic performance . 
his body language ( for example , the way he walks ) and his facial expressions are perfectly suited to his compulsive character . 
lloyd's brilliant performance yields a pathetic , moving , and memorable character . 
the dream team is a solid comedy with more depth and drama than you might expect from its simple premise . 
the characters are so appealing that you can excuse the film for its often outlandish and unbelievable plot . 
people who enjoy science fiction are often faced with unpleasant surprises due to the improper labelling of novels , stories , comic books or movies . 
often science fiction aficionados find material , previously labelled as science fiction , to be pure fantasy or supernatural horror , or rather simple techno-thriller . 
in such cases , mistakes are understandable - genre boundaries are never clearly marked . 
but , i believe there are really few cases when a movie labelled as science fiction actually happens to be straight historical epic . 
such thing occurred in former yugoslavia some fifteen years ago , when national distributors gave such treatment to the right stuff , 1983 film directed by philip kaufman . 
the mistake of the distributors could be explained with the fact that the official poster of the film features men in space suits . 
but the right stuff film isn't even fiction . 
it was based on the non-fiction book by tom wolfe , covering the early years of american space program . 
the plot of the film begins in 1947 when few people heard of edwards air force base , major test site for experimental planes . 
the major aim of test flights is to determine ability of manned aircraft to reach 1 mach speed and thus break the sound barrier . 
many pilots tried to achieve that goal and many paid with their lives for such bravado . 
but one quiet pilot , chuck eager ( played by sam shaped ) succeeds and thus gives example for whole new generation of test pilots , determined to enter history books by breaking new speed records . 
ten years later , soviets have launched " sputnik " marking the beginning of the space age . 
in order to regain national prestige , us government decides to be the first to send man into space . 
best air force , navy and marine pilots are recruited into program , but not yeager , because he lacks college education and desired all-american image . 
in one of critics' polls the right stuff was named as one among top 10 films made in 1980s . 
such high position could be explained with the fact that kaufman's film looks quite atypical for its time . 
with more than three hours of length and epic scope it looked more suitable for 1950s and 1960s - age when hollywood used to make films larger than life . 
but the real reason lies in the fact that it was made by truly remarkable and talented filmmaker . 
philip kaufman created reputation in 1970s by using all the opportunities of that golden age in order to create original , memorable movies . 
the right stuff was the last of them , swan song of an era when producers allowed directors to spend big bucks on unusual , risk-taking " artsy " projects . 
the right stuff is unusual because it lacks many standard elements of hollywood film . 
the plot is almost non-existent and not very coherent ; the story , featuring many interesting incidents and anecdotes , shifts focus from the old generation of test pilots , embodied in yeager , to new generation of the astronauts . 
the film also lacks conventional protagonist - yeager ( who also appears in small cameo ) remains the true hero of the film , but equal time and exposure is also given to other astronauts and their wives , making this movie into ensemble piece . 
that gave opportunity for kaufman to use multitude of great acting talents , until that specialised only for bit or character roles . 
sam shepard is great as yeager , war hero whose greatest achievement - breech of the sound barrier - remained obscured in history books , probably due to his own modesty . 
on the surface , he lacks personality compared with his hyped and more fortunate astronaut colleagues , but shepard gives texture to this character with subtle gestures and phrases . 
shepard's performance is followed with great acting by ed harris as clean-cut marine ( and future politician ) john glenn . 
young dennis quaid is more than fine as arrogant fighter jock gordo cooper , and this arrogance is mirrored in his friend and most tragic figure of virgil grissom , superbly played by fred ward . 
always reliable character actor scott glenn provides some comic relief as navy aviator and ( arguably ) first american man in space alan shepard . 
kaufman left room for female talents to excel too - barbara hershey , pamela reed , veronica cartwright and mary jo deschanel are great as pilots' wives . 
royal dano is also impressive as menacing figure of preacher , but the most memorable performances belong to donald moffat as vice-president lyndon b . johnson and jane dornacker as nurse murch . 
great acting talent assembled for this film was mirrored with kaufman's superb direction . 
most notable of all is the methods kaufman uses in order to suggest the passage of time . 
the beginning of the film shows test pilots living in the middle of desert , as virtual unknowns , far away from strict rules and discipline . 
everything seems natural -yeager can indulge himself in horse riding just few yards away from the fastest and most precious aircraft in the world . 
in that setting , it's quite normal for important technical problems to be solved with simple chainsaw and for the test pilots not to report their ribs being broken before most important flights . 
but the times are changing ; ww2 alliance with ussr is replaced with cold war , and " natural " pilots like yeager must be replaced with more disciplined , conventional pilots . 
their entire lives become focus of media frenzy , and their job is subjected to strict rules , meticulous plans and they must fight the bureaucrats , publicity-seeking politicians and uncaring scientists ( like former nazi rocket expert werner von braun , played by scott beach ) only to preserve their most basic human dignity . 
this contrast is underlined with the beautifully edited sequence - while yeager conducts his final and most spectacular test flight in absolute obscurity , " mercury " astronauts receive fame and fortune , although some of them even before going in the space . 
those contrasts and similar effects are achieved with kaufman's superb use of poetic movie language . 
editing is great , and photography by caleb deschanel provides many memorable scenes like the funeral in the desert or astronauts in their suits walking in slow motion ( the same image would be copied in many latter films ) . 
although kaufman enjoyed support of nasa and american military , which provided authentic locations and period equipment , he still had to use special effects in order to simulate space flights . 
those effects are excellent and they can still fool the audience accustomed to cgi and real footage of earth from outer space . 
another fine contribution of this film is " oscar " -awarded musical score by bill conti ; i still tremble from excitement every time i hear it . 
it is accompanied with the use of holst and debussy . 
some of the songs used in the background also provide authentic atmosphere of the historical period . 
this film is great , and its cult status is well deserved , but there are some minor flaws . 
some of the " mercury " astronauts aren't fleshed out enough ( although being played by fine actors , like lance henriksen ) . 
film also lacks proper closure . 
on the other hand , most logical conclusion of the film - landing on the moon - would require this film to be more than six hours long . 
also , some critics were prone to attack this film as too amerocentric and hard on russians , who were portrayed as evil monsters , just in line with most virulent cold war rhetoric of reagan's america . 
in some of contemporary interviews , kaufman defended that approach by claiming that he wanted to make film as authentic as possible , and in order to do that , he portrayed russians not as they were in real life , but as they were perceived by americans in early 1960s . 
time has passed ; now we don't see astronauts as heroes . 
in this age of widespread satellite communications and routine space missions , those men and women in space suits are seen as mere maintenance workers . 
few young boys want to be astronauts when they grow up . 
but this film , sentimental reminder of the times " when future began " , perhaps could encourage at least some of them to follow " mercury " astronauts' footsteps seek new frontiers in the sky . 
and even if they decide to stay on earth , they could still appreciate the right stuff as an extraordinary piece of cinema . 
i find most of television so intensely boring that i simply never turn on my set , unless i'm watching a movie . 
i don't even have cable , so i went to radio shack to buy an antenna specifically for the purpose of watching " the x-files " every sunday night . 
it's the only show that's worth an hour of my time each week ( though , since i don't watch reruns , i'm glad that i have six months of the year to avoid television altogether ) . 
i am an avid fan of the show , and have been for about three years now . 
and i love gillian anderson . 
the x-files is the film that continues the story where the season finale left off . 
the film is like a two-hour episode , except that there are a lot more special effects , the plot is thicker , and the resolution is more satisfying . 
this is a terrific film , both for fans of the series and for those who have never seen it ( i imagine that viewers unfamiliar with the show will find the film to be solid and riveting entertainment ) . 
i expected to like it more than any episode i've seen , and my expectations were met . 
actually , the film takes a few risks in its story and plot devices , but , thankfully , the makers managed to do it right . 
when the finale ended , the fbi branch known as the x-files had been destroyed , and our heroes , mulder ( david duchovny ) and scully ( gillian anderson ) were left stripped of five years of hard work . 
the film picks up soon after ; and mulder and scully have been reduced to field agents investigating a bomb threat in a federal building . 
but wait , i'm getting ahead of myself . 
the film actually opens in the ice age , about 32 , 000 years prior , during which a couple of prehistoric guys get attacked by a vicious alien . 
the alien's blood infects them ( fans of the show will certainly remember the black cancer ) , and the story jumps into modern times , during which a young boy is also infected with the cancer . 
it turns out that the bomb was planted to kill the boy , and mulder and scully uncover the cover-up despite the fact that scully has resigned from her position in the fbi . 
soon , they find out that the whole thing has to do with aliens . 
as i've written before , it's not easy to write plot summaries for films like this , because everything needs to be a surprise . 
fans of the show will know what to expect , and i seriously doubt any of them being disappointed with the film . 
director rob bowman has done a great job expanding the eerie feeling of the show to the big screen , making small adjustments and minor changes to utilize the possibilities that film allows over television . 
there are some truly suspenseful and well-created scenes here ( late in the film , when they're in the alien spacecraft , you'll see one of the better action sequences in recent cinema ) . 
the special effects are very good , and the production design by christopher nowak is fantastic . 
what i find interesting is that the x-files is actually a great way for series neophytes to get into the story . 
our heroes are given subtle introductions ( we're not expected to know them on the outset ) , and the film explains enough of the story that prior knowledge of the series isn't required to understand the film . 
there are , of course , little elements that the makers have included as payoff to the fans , but i'll keep those as surprises . 
it takes a lot of thought and understanding of the series to create a film using roots as complicated as the ones that the series provides , and then create a coherent film that anyone can understand clearly . 
the series is strong for a lot of reasons . 
it's original ( though it has many ties to " the twilight zone " and owes some homage to hitchcock ) , and impressively eerie for a television show . 
what really makes the series shine , however , are the actors . 
duchovny has so much presence , and is just a fun guy to watch . 
he has that confidence that will someday make him into a bankable leading man . 
anderson is equally good , and paralyzingly beautiful ; she's also a strong actress . 
both performers have acted in little more than their series , however , though i think they'll both get their chances to prove themselves very soon . 
i enthusiastically recommend the x-files , both for fans and non-fans . 
1998 is a summer filled with disappointing blockbusters , and this film should satisfy where most of the others leave you completely dry . 
it's an intelligent film , and takes you places that you might not have been ( or , at least , might not have seen so many times that they feel familiar ) . 
the x-files is impressive in concept , as well : fans of the series are likely to be highly critical , and to take the premise beyond the series is a risky move . 
it's nice to see a risk pay off for a change . 
actually , it's nice to see a risk at all . 
 " the celebration " is one of an elite kind of films that is completely absorbant . 
you know , where you sit down to watch it , and no matter what you've heard about it before , you just can't help but be totally drawn into its story and shocked by every single turn that occurs . 
i prefer films like these because these are what the best kind of films are like . 
i don't really feel there are to be any real " rules " for cinema ; a film can do anything , as long as it makes it work . 
but i do ask that all films have one thing in common : they create experiences . 
when i watch a film , no matter what kind of film it is , i want to be able to take certain memories along with me . 
 " the celebration " is great because it's chock full of those . 
it creates a world so completely realistic that everything that occurs is as memorable as the little instances of life that catch your attention and stay with you for the rest of your life . 
and then it makes things just a tad bit farscial , just to make sure you're paying attention , which you are because what transpires is just so goddam interesting that if you were to ever feel bored , then you're of your attention span needs a bit of a tuning-up . 
the story takes place at the extravagant home of an aging patriarch ( henning mortizen ) , who has just turned 60 and is having a party thrown for him . 
all his friends and family turn up , and for the first half hour , we get introduced to everyone , simplistically and realistically ( no aggravatingly condescending posing for the camera deals here ) . 
the eldest son , christian ( ulrich thomsen , looking a bit like a young malcolm mcdowell ) , is the first to be seen in the film , walking to his father's home . 
his brother , michael ( thomas bo larsen ) , drives by , pulls over , greets him , then kicks his family out of the car , forcing them to walk to the estate , just so christian can be comfortable . 
we then meet helene ( paprika steen ) , their sister , a woman who always seems to be stressed-out , who invites the driver of her car ( gbatokai dakinah ) , an american , to to come join her at the party she's going to . 
once they're all there and settled in , the party begins , and as custom , the eldest son has to make a speech to his dad , so christian stands up , at the head of the table , and reveals the film's punchline : his father raped all his children at a young age . 
but since this is a family/friends affair , his confession becomes more detested than the supposed truth , and is simply brushed off despite his efforts , and what transpires is sorta like jerry springer crossed with jean renoir , and it's all terribly interesting to watch . 
twists occur , and soon the film has taken on a nearly-farsical nature , but still seems realistic because the people involved really feel like they could reach such ends . 
the most notorious thing about this film , which has been getting the most notice , though , is that the director , thomas vinterberg has shot it in a completely awkward fashion . 
as a member of the danish filmmakers clan , dogme 95 , a group that has vowed to oppose " the auteur concept , make-up , illusions , and dramaturgical predictability " so that they may " purge film so that once again the inner lives of the characters justify the plot . " 
i have not seen " breaking the waves , " the other notable film by a member of this group ( lars von trier , to be exact ) , but " the celebration " works exquisitely in this department . 
it feels like reality , like you're actually watching real people and not actors , and as a major pointer , has been shot on video . 
as a result , it looks more like the home movies you never dare shot of your family than an actual film , but always wanted to . 
we see key moments in people's lives that they wouldn't dare show to the world , and it captures the farscial comedy of life so accurately and acutely that this style , as ironically-showmanship as it really is , works perfectly for the nature of the film . 
the key , though , to this film , and the reason it's not just a cool danish import , is because this film is not about revealing the truth as much as it is about the way people react to such an explosive truth . 
throughout the film , we see a completely realized debate over the truth and the effects it has on the lives of those who have learned to live with lies , a debate so three-dimensional that it could easily blow oliver stone and his the-truth-at-all-costs reasoning out of the water . 
of course it was not right for the father to rape his children , and of course , they couldn't have fought back then , and of course this has created scarring suppression inside them . 
and yes , it's thearapeutic for one to release the truth years later , when they know it could easily destroy the one who emotionally destroyed them earlier . 
but then again , the father , after all , is not a totally bad guy , and we can see the emotional complications that arise thanks to a performance by mortizen which is just so great and touching that while we do believe that he could have raped his children years earlier , we also see a man who has also learned to live with what he's done , and deep down , feels true guilt that is only now beginning to surface . 
the final scene , involving mortizen and everyone else , is utterly devastating , thanks to him and thomsen , whose performance is utterly flawless and equally emotionally complex . 
everyone else is flawless as well - the actors never seem to be stepping into the shoes of their characters as much as they do walking comfortably in them . 
the actors or writers have not made the mistake to judge these characters in the slightest : there are no whites or blacks but instead all grays , exactly like life . 
as such , " the celebration " may be the one truly bizarro film of the year : a work of art so eerily close to reality that it's utterly disturbing and utterly fascinating . 
synopsis : shrek ( myers ) is an ogre living in contented solitude deep in the heart of a forest , until his home is invaded by fairy tale creatures fleeing the rule of the evil lord farquaad ( john lithgow ) . 
farquaad agrees to relocate the pests , on the condition that shrek rescues princess fiona ( diaz ) -- whom farquaad desires to wed -- from a far-off castle . 
grudgingly , shrek sets out , joined in his quest by an unwanted companion , donkey ( murphy ) . 
review : one memorable aspect of disney's " aladdin " was that it finally gave robin williams a character -- the genie -- to best take advantage of his comic talents . 
 " shrek " does the same for eddie murphy ; ironically , though , murphy's ideal vessel turns out to be an ass . 
all the same , " shrek " does represent murphy's best comic outing in years , and as donkey he steals all the best lines . 
for instance , after getting belted with pixie dust while trying to conceal his nature as a magical creature , donkey soars into the air and scoffs , " now i'm a flying talking donkey ! " 
and despite its many contributors , the script for " shrek " is full of such comic gems . 
myers is delightful in more of a straight man role , and lithgow also gets some great moments ( watch for a hilarious repartee with the gingerbread man ) . 
 " shrek " takes great pleasure in lampooning fairy tales and nursery rhymes of all sorts , and reserves a few delightful knocks at disney in the bargain . 
things do go somewhat astray during the film's middle segment , which concentrates too much on the main characters at the expense of some of the terrific fairy tale satire which is the movie's greatest strength . 
but even then , one can always sit back and enjoy the beautiful computer animation , whose remarkable use here represents yet another dazzling leap forward for the technology . 
matthew broderick and high school comedy . 
the two terms have been practically inseparable since ferris buehler took the day off in 1986 . 
now it is 13 years later , and broderick has another high school comedy , election , to show the world . 
ferris buehler's day off showed an educational setting that was similar to a pile of marshmallows . 
it was light , fluffy , tasty , and sparkling clean . 
but election is far different . 
this production is a dark , and frighteningly realistic one that does so much more than entertain for the 103 minutes it occupies ; it shocks as well . 
jim mcallister ( matthew broderick ) is the type of teacher that makes american high schools proud . 
he is a kind , caring , younger man who has built his life around carver high school . 
in turn , carver high school has provided a home for him . 
jim has won teacher of the year no less than three times in his 12 year span , and is a well respected social studies teacher among the student body . 
tracy flick ( reese witherspoon ) is an intelligent , outgoing , and , to quote the film , " super nice " young girl . 
she is involved in numerous extracurricular activities , always has her hand up first in class , and is extremely popular among most of the student body . 
so , it is a natural progression when she decides to run for school president . 
the metzler family is an extremely wealthy one . 
the father , dick ( holmes osborne ) , owns a cement company . 
the mother , jo ( jeanine jackson ) , is an ideal housewife . 
and the two children , paul ( chris klein ) and tammy ( jessica campbell ) , are both students at carver high school . 
paul was the quarterback of the football team before he injured himself , and is definitely a candidate for most popular person in school . 
tammy is a lesbian who , to say the least , is going through a period of self discovery . 
for reasons of revenge , hatred , and sexual envy , jim convinces paul to run against tracy for school president . 
he claims that in a democracy you need choices , and having tracy run unopposed creates a dictatorship of sorts . 
so paul agrees and the race is on . 
but then , in an effort to spite the two candidates , tammy announces that she is running as well . 
her campaign is straightforward : people only run to put it on their college applications , then they do nothing . 
well , " i don't even want to go to college , " she says . 
in election , there are no " good guys " . 
almost everyone has their own agenda . 
no matter how deeply hidden , the production digs it up and exploits it for the audience . 
tracy is the type of person that you remember from high school . 
she is the girl that would be labeled " most likely to achieve anything she wants " in the yearbook , and everyone secretly envied her because of that . 
jim is a teacher that takes the trust that students give him as a privilege , and uses it to his own amoral advantage . 
everyone , including the principal , a former teacher , all the candidates , and even paul's girlfriend are two sided characters . 
that is much of this film's beauty , it doesn't have the typical good guys that hollywood likes , instead it is a realistic portrayal of the real world , specializing in revealing the type of sexual perversions that people usually keep to themselves . 
matthew broderick couldn't have been any more perfect for this role . 
his character is often similar bill murray's award winning role in the 1998 film , rushmore . 
of the two acting jobs , broderick's is far superior . 
but even he is overshadowed by the young reese witherspoon . 
the hatred that she causes the audience to develop towards her , is simply indescribable . 
broderick and witherspoon are simply at their best when they are playing off each other in various scenes . 
one such moment occurs when she approaches him in his car as he is leaving school one day . 
you can see her self pride in her eyes as she presents him a list of signatures , making her an eligible candidate . 
and his subtle disgust with her is apparent , although he tries to mask it between the lines and attempts to put on a happy face . 
the supporting cast is one with little hollywood experience . 
but that is far from apparent as everyone takes control of their part . 
however , the real treat is jessica campbell in her confused role as a young homosexual girl . 
this is never more apparent than the scene where she delivers her speech announcing her so-called platform for presidency . 
she is just marvelous as her hatred towards what she thinks to be an unjust system is expressed . 
if ferris buehler made you feel good about american high schools , and gave you an innocent laugh or two , then the movie achieved its goal . 
but don't you dare think that election's goals are similar . 
it is just as real in its portrayal of high school , as its characters are in the real world . 
there certainly is no pile of marshmallows here . 
the rocky horror picture show 'special edition' ( 1975 ) 
starring : tim curry and susan sarandon 
cult films are never mainstream . 
the casual viewer of a cult film will look at it and be repulsed and confused , yelling out 'what the hell is that ? ' . 
fans of these sorts of movies will be laughing at every other second at all the 'hidden jokes' they missed the first time around while normal movie watchers will look at them like they're insane . 
the rocky horror picture show , recently re-released in a 'special edition' to video , is the mother of all cult films . 
period . 
like some other cult films , most notably little shop of horrors , the rocky horror picture show is a musical with a twisted edge to it . 
this movie begins out innocently enough- a couple get engaged at a friend's wedding and get a flat tire in the middle of the night while it's raining . 
they go to a castle to try to use the phone . 
little do they know that the castle is owned by dr . frank n . furter , a mad transexual transvestite scientist who has recently created a creature he will use for personal reasons . 
the acting is pretty good overall . 
tim curry ( home alone 2 , legend ) is over-the-top as frank n . furter . 
it's interesting to see that this movie was one of future oscar winner susan sarandon's ( dead man walking ) first film- she plays janet , the girlfriend of brad majors . 
even the singer meatloaf is in it ! ! 
the songs are all very good yet twisted in their own way . 
a sampling of titles range from damn it , janet to touch-a touch-a touch-a touch me . 
all the actors sing their songs with no dubbing from other actors- kind of a bad thing . 
barry bostwick ( brad majors ) tries to sing as does susan sarandon , but tim curry is clearly the most professional having extensive stage experience . 
meatloaf sings like meatloaf . 
the new special edition contains two original movie trailers of the film as well as two songs deleted from the original version . 
sadly , the songs are tacked after the credits- kind of defeats the purpose . 
if you want to see a different film , watch this one ! ! 
confession time : i have never , ever seen gone with the wind . 
i don't know why , really . 
haven't wanted to check it out on video , haven't been at home the nights it was on network tv , and it was too far to drive the last time it was on the big-screen . 
so right up front , i'll admit that i don't know what the heck i'm talking about , but here goes . . . 
is titanic the gone with the wind of the 1990's ? 
maybe that's going a little bit too far . 
as good a job as leonardo dicaprio and kate winslet do in this movie , they're no clark gable and vivien leigh . 
but . . . 
the parallels are there . 
gwtw was the first movie to take real advantage of the most revolutionary technology available -- technicolor . 
titanic takes revolutionary steps forward in seamlessly integrating computer graphic design with actors . 
gwtw places america's greatest tragedy in the background of a classic love story , titanic does the same with the atlantic's most legendary tragedy . 
they both have strong-willed redheaded heroines , they both exploit the class differences between the aristocracy and the slaves/steerage bums , they were both incredibly expensive and popular . . . 
ok , maybe that's not enough parallels . 
so titanic's not in gwtw's league . 
no matter . 
titanic is a great movie in its own right , complete with spills , thrills and ( especially ) chills . 
much has been made of the humongous cost of the production , and all of the care than went into making the huge luxury liner come alive again . 
the money was obviously well-spent . 
the costumes look great , the sets look great , the cgi graphics look great . 
i especially liked the expensive little touches , like spending tons of money on authentic titanic china only to break it all on the floor as the ship sinks . 
but writer/director/producer james cameron's real challenge in writing/directing/ producing titanic wasn't just costuming and set design and special effects . 
cameron's major headache was keeping the audience interested in a tale where everybody knows the ending going in . 
he succeeds masterfully . 
cameron does two things that work incredibly well . 
first , he shows us modern-day salvage operations on titanic ( that's just " titanic " , not " the titanic " , mind you ) . 
the first glimpse we get of titanic is the ship in its present state , corroding slowly away under the hammering pressure of the north atlantic , from the window of a minisub piloted by treasure hunter brock lovett ( bill paxton ) . 
television coverage of the exploration of titanic intrigues 101-year-old rose calvert ( gloria stuart ) , who survived the wreck in 1912 . 
stuart does a phenomenal job in a brief role , narrating the story of her experience to a stunned paxton and his roughneck crew . 
secondly , cameron keeps the storyline focused almost exclusively on the rose character , and the romantic triangle between rose ( winslet ) , her bastard millionaire fiancee cal hockley ( billy zane ) and the irrepressible young artist jack daswon ( dicaprio ) . 
the way that big-budget disaster movies usually go wrong is to have an all-star cast , so we see the impact of the disaster on a wide group of people . 
cameron wisely chooses to stick with rose and jack , while paying scant heed to the celebrities on board . 
the supporting cast is professional , but mostly anonymous -- other than kathy bates as the unsinkable molly brown , there's no moment when you stop and say , oh , yeah , i know him , what's he been in . 
 ( although i would like to have seen colm meaney in a white star uniform , or even as the ill-fated engineer . ) 
the love story itself is rather conventional . 
i think some reviewers found it weak , and that may be a fair criticism . 
the performances are the key here . 
zane has the meatiest part in the movie , and he plays the arrogant , condescending steel millionaire to the hilt . 
he's smooth , he looks great in a tuxedo , and he's a convincing enough jerk that the winslet-dicaprio relationship looks plausible . 
at the moment when he sees a little girl too frightened to get aboard a lifeboat , you can hear the wheels in his mind turning , saying not " can i save this little girl ? " , 
but " can she help me get on a lifeboat ? " 
dicaprio is a revelation . 
i hadn't seen him before in anything , and didn't know what the heck to expect , really . 
 ( honestly , i expected a bad irish accent , but cameron evidently decided that was a bad idea , so dicaprio plays a poor american artist who wins a ticket in a poker game . ) 
dicaprio exhibits an infectious joy at being alive , and being on the titanic , that it's hard not to like him . 
from the moment that the ship leaves port until it hits the iceberg , dicaprio has to carry the movie and keep our interest , and he never falters . 
winslet's character grows up a lot during the movie , and so does her performance . 
at first , she's not required to do anything but wear period clothing and look drop-dead gorgeous . 
we know from the narration that she's monstrously unhappy with her arranged marriage to zane , but there isn't any expression of these feelings until she encounters dicaprio . 
winslet and dicaprio develop a chemistry that manages to propel the movie along until the ship hits the iceberg . 
it's at that moment where winslet's character really comes alive . 
faced with real danger , she drops her spoiled-rich-girl mannerisms and does a splendid job . 
as rose and jack race around the doomed ship , looking for shelter from the freezing water and cal's fiery temper , winslet turns in a superb acting performance , mixing courage and compassion and anger with sheer shrieking terror . 
of course , the most interesting character is the ship itself . 
cameron has clearly fallen in love with titanic , and shows her in every mood -- as a deserted wreck , down in the boiler room , up on the bridge , down in the hold , at the captain's table , down in steerage -- and manages to bring the great ship back from the dead . 
cameron's greatest gift is that he allows us to fall in love with titanic as well . 
if he doesn=92t watch out , mel gibson is in danger of being known as someone other than mad max . 
of course there are still a few big guns in this film , but there=92s some accomplished acting too . 
although gibson continues to shed his rough and gritty anti-hero skin as his career progresses , here he explores a new genre : the businessman as action hero . 
in ron howard=92s latest film , gibson plays tom mullen , a gazillionaire airline owner whose son is snatched from the junior science fair by kidnappers . 
mullen at first agrees to pay the ransom , but when things fall apart he rethinks the situation . 
a veteran of numerous hard-nosed business negotiations , the tycoon realizes that in order to get his son back alive , he has to play his hand differently . 
the casting is what puts this film over the top . 
the trio of gibson , the kidnappers' mastermind ( gary sinise ) and fbi team leader ( delroy lindo ) play off of each other wonderfully . 
sinise is perfect as the driven scheming sleezebag is right on the mark . 
his speech to mullen over a walkie talkie about h . g . wells=92 morlocks and eloi reveal his vision of= 
society . mullen and the other glitteratti frolic up on high while sinise and the other lowlifes dwell below , feeding off the unsuspecting . 
gibson=92s character is an all-american hero with a few flaws . 
his cowboy= 
tactics tend to work , but they are also what got him into this situation to begin with . 
in a round about way , if he weren=92t known as a man who i= s willing to buy his way out of trouble , his son wouldn=92t have been kidnapped . 
as sinise says " you=92re a payer . 
you did it once and now you=92re going to do it again . " 
one of the nicest elements of this film is that most of the characters actually have personalities . 
lindo calls home to talk to his kids , obviously shaken at working this case . 
even the kidnappers are real people , arguing about the ultimate fate of sean mullen and feeding him candy bars . 
gibson=92s break-down on the balcony of their penthouse apartment is especially effective . 
it=92s one of the best filmed representations of a man=92s world falling apart that i=92ve seen . 
it=92s not all perfect . 
the shoot 'em upending , while emotionally satisfying seems tacked on to be just that rather than to provide a powerful resolution . 
as well crafted as the scene is , we=92ve seen it before . 
mullen=92s wife ( rene russo ) has several good moments , but occasionally just seems to be there . 
while adequate , brawley nolte ( sean ) doesn=92t provide much to the film other than occupying space to build the story around . 
but you=92ll ignore these problems as each minute of the movie builds on the previous one . 
forget about the large coke , you won=92t want to leave for that five minute break an hour later . 
john cusack is the kind of actor who seems to effortlessly slide into his respective film roles . 
so effortlessly that people tend to forget he's there , much in the way people rarely recall many of the great character actors ( anyone who can put the name james rebhorn with that actor's face is invited to treat themselves to a product from one of my sponsors ) . 
example : the other day my mother asked me ( the expert , of course ) if there were any movies out worth seeing , never mind that our tastes couldn't be more divergent--- i'll never forget the day she recommended that i go see a night at the roxbury for god sakes , and to be fair she was mightily pissed at me for telling her that go ! 
was a lot of fun ( which it is ) , so i didn't see this as anything more than a futile attempt at conversation . 
i muttered , with a little trepidation , that she might enjoy high fidelity . 
she responded with her usual query , " whose in that one ? " 
this is a question whose answer that seems to immediately conjure up the kind of movie you went to see . 
if the reply is julia roberts you probably assume it was something wispy and light , a sylvester stallone movie and you picture a bloodbath with few words and much involuntary bicep flexing , and a woody allen movie means hyper articulate white people ( usually of the jewish faith ) fretting about in some upper east side palace . 
anyway , when i answered " john cusack " , she replied with a rather stunned " who ? " , as if it was unreasonable for her to know whom i was referring to . 
now i know for a fact that my mother has seen several cusack movies , most recently being john malkovich and pushing tin , but i suppose it's understandable that she would not recognize the name , after all , for most , names are tougher than faces . 
i showed her a picture of cusack's mug in the paper hoping for an " oh - him , yes he's quite good " instead i got a " no - i don't know him " . 
at this point i was way beyond frustration into a realm of nose hair yanking anger ( yes , filmic ignorance is all it takes to get me into the nose hair pulling zone ) , till i realized something : i doubt that much of america would recognize cusack's relatively bland visage , or even the name which is rather bland compared to the coolness of a brad pitt or tom cruise , one-syllable names that glide off the tongue with the velocity of a speeding car . 
cu-sack . cu-sack - no , not quite as cool . 
i'm sure that twenty years from now cusack will forever be referred to as " the guy from ( add in the cusack film of your choice ) " . 
he's not a brand name , and his movies usually aren't big moneymakers , but in his own unassuming way he's kind of a genius . 
with his pleasant , common man looks , and charming semi-articulate blatherings he has become one of the most likeable romantic leading men of the 90's . 
from the sure thing to say anything cusack has merged the talents of early tom hanks and early jack lemmon . 
despite the fact that nearly every character he plays is a variation of the character before it ( the schlumpy every man ) , he's a constantly enjoyable screen persona , like albert brooks or woody allen . 
and he knows how to chose scripts , while the stephan baldwin's and val kilmer's seem to put them selves in everything ( the former actually had the insight to follow up oscar winner usual suspects with a pauly shore vehicle , and judging from his latest projects it looks like he still has yet to fire his agent ) , cusack generally picks rewarding projects ( save for the unwatchable hot pursuit , a 1988 film also featuring a young ben stiller ) . 
high fidelity is his second collaboration with hit or miss english director stephan fears ( the grifters , the hi-lo country ) , and it's a hit . 
it was also co-written by cusack , and some of his collaborators on the terrific comedy , grosse point blank . 
it's not quite as entertaining or as funny as that film , but as it progresses in its meandering fashion , the movie cast something of a spell over me . 
high fidelity begins as a hipster ode to the non-committal rob , a vinyl record store owner , who opens the film by breaking down the fourth wall with much abandon and educating us in his " top 5 break ups list " . 
this is something cusack does the entire film a la ferris bueller's day off . 
at first the talking-directly-into-the-camera-schtick had me vaguely annoyed , mostly because it reminded me so much of the film body shots which used a similar conceit , but it began to grow on me due almost entirely to cusack's witty delivery . 
he's the kind of guy we don't mind talking directly to us . 
gradually the film settles into a shampoo-like tragi-comic character study , of a guy who must confront himself and his personal failures in order to figure out the true person he is ( yes it's all very existential ) . 
though that plot-line is mostly enjoyable , the thing i liked the most about the film is how much pleasure it offers in introducing us to minor characters , all of whom ( now this is really something ) are terrific enough to warrant their own films . 
the best of which is jack black ( of the very funny show tenacious d , a program that sadly went the way of bruce willis' hair ? ? ? unfortunately that annoying smirk remains ) , an ardent record store employee who bullies customers into buying exactly what he wants them to buy . 
he's the kind of guy i'm sure we've all met before , a blowhard who thinks he's always right and will do anything in his power ( be it yell , argue , insult ) to hoist his opinion onto others . 
but i like this guy , because of how black plays him . 
the actor is portly with a round baby face and crazy eyes , but despite his size he leaps to and fro like a manic speed freak ( which might be a bit of a redundant description , seeing as how all the speed freaks i know are manic ) . 
he's the kind of supporting character who would be impossibly annoying comic relief in most other films . 
 ( look at what that hack jan de bont did to poor phillip seymour hoffman in twister ) . 
but fears and black never let that happen . 
the character , for all his shucking and jiving is steeped in reality . 
he's over the top , but in a way we can all probably relate to . 
catherine zeta-jones , in her brief role , gives a vivid portrayal of a women completely enamored with her own " charm " . 
tim robbins registers in an even tinier part as a new age-type , a character played entirely for cartoon yuks , but still manages to work its desired comic effect . 
the one exception in the acting department is a bit of a doozy , the main love interest played by danish actress iben hjejle ( mifune ) , who completely obliterates any trace of a danish accent , replacing it with a stilted american phonation . 
i give her kudos for attempting such a contradictory role , but instead of being likeable , she comes across as rather robotic , and as such it's hard to see why cusack's character would be so obsessed with her especially when he has a beautiful , intelligent writer ( natasha gregson wagner ) potentially waiting in the wings . 
this reminded me of say anything , where the charming cusack was paired with the charmless ione skye , and in midnight in the garden of good and evil where the poor bastard had to put up with alison eastwood ( whose unbelievably more wooden then father , clint for those " special people " whose wheels turn a little slower ) . 
in fact cusack is rarely paired up with a personality that matches his , though i'd bet that if laura and natasha switched roles , the result would be more effective . 
high fidelity works almost entirely on the strength of its characters and performances . 
fears' direction is somewhat stilted , and the script is sometimes a little too ( and this is a word i'm beginning to hate to use but alas i must ) quirky for its own good ( i think i'll blame that on scott rosenberg , who judging from what he did with beautiful girls , con air , and things to do in denver while your dead , has his fingerprints all over the most irritating bits of this movie ) . 
but cusack really does deserve an award , for being so damn ? ? ? cusackian . 
i'm afraid that his talents are so understated that he may have to wait till his hip needs replacing to be offered such an award worthy of his considerable talent . 
his character , rob ( whose sort of like an older , more bitter lloyd from say anything ) is funny and tragic without being pathetic , and that cusack can do all this , and still not imprint himself onto the minds of most audiences , is something of an achievement . 
only a year after the initial release of " scream , " the horror send-up from veteran horror director wes craven and screenwriter kevin williamson that seemed to breathe new life into the slasher genre , the inevitable sequel " scream 2 " has arrived in our theaters . 
while the tongue-in-cheek , parodic element is still noticeable in this film , it's really a sideshow to a broader commentary on violence and the media and a more conventional horror story . 
the first film , while often violent and gruesome , was mostly lacking in genuine scares because almost every scene was played for camp value and the discussion of the quirks and cliches of horror movies was nearly constant . 
the premise of " scream 2 " is that a series of copycat killings begin when a movie called " stab , " based on a book written by opportunistic reporter gail weathers ( courtney cox ) about the events in " scream , " is released and two audience members are killed during the opening screening . 
i had heard about this scene before i went to see the film and was surprised to find this sequence largely lacking in camp comedy . 
its conclusion , in which a bleeding , wounded woman stumbles in front of the screen and dies in front of an audience that cheers on because they think it's a publicity stunt , is more surreal and disturbing than anything else . 
the satire in " scream 2 " thus takes on a broad focus and gradually evolves into an exploration of media perceptions in general . 
although resident horror film geek randy ( jamie kennedy ) is back with fresh dialogue about sequels ( and , interestingly enough , how they are usually inferior to their predecessors ) , the characters in this movie are drawing from other entries in the pop culture encyclopedia as well . 
everything from " friends " and " saved by the bell " to " showgirls " and " terminator 2 " is referenced here ; horror is only one of many genres available for lampooning , and there aren't any " wes carpenter " jokes this time . 
more importantly , this film portrays characters willing to go to disturbing lengths for media attention as well as characters whose perceptions have clearly been warped by what they have seen on tv and film . 
the killings are clearly an imitation of the previous murders from " scream " ( in fact , the culprit even plans to use the influence of horror movies as a courtroom defense ) , weathers exploits the situation for her own notoriety , and one man seems willing to save the heroine's life only if it will earn him an interview on the today show . 
understandably , " scream 2 " does not go so far as to actually blame the movies , but rather shows that those who do imitate horror movies are already sick and twisted . 
couple that with the fact that several of the characters , most notably the lead character sidney prescott ( neve campbell ) , are fairly well-developed and that there are some genuine moments of spine-chilling suspense , and what we have is a pretty darned good horror movie in its own right . 
we don't just get the horror of scary masks and graphic gore - we also get the horror of sympathetic characters who seem helpless as their friends are slaughtered ( and , in one case , a significant character who was an audience favorite even bites the dust ) and whose lives have been reduced to constant fear of a crazed murderer lurking around the corner . 
while i have not seen any of his other work , it's easy to see why craven is generally touted as the most sophisticated " slasher film " director , as he clearly cares about something more than just the actual acts of slashing . 
unfortunately , " scream 2 " occasionally reverts to the time-honored horror tradition of throwing logic out the window . 
for example , several characters seem quite clearly dead and inexplicably turn up alive later - there has been a running gag in both movies about the villain being able to pull off this particular trick , but it also happens with other characters and in an even less believable fashion . 
there are also a few scenes in which the killer suddenly appears behind the next victim in a situation such that ( s ) he clearly would have been seen moving in that direction . 
as for the question of whether or not " scream 2 " is yet another sequel not as good as its predecessor . 
 . 
 . 
well , it's hard to say . 
i gave the first " scream " 3 1/2 stars as well because it worked pretty consistently as a light-hearted send-up . 
 " scream 2 " bounces all over the place stylistically , but it does a better job delivering the genuine scares and asking the questions about media violence that were only hinted at in the first installment . 
i'm not sure which is the better movie , but i did leave the theater convinced of one thing : sequels , however much randy might argue , do not necessarily suck . 
the full monty is a whole lot of fun , its wacky , witty , and original . 
it's written and directed by relatively unknowns , simon beaufoy and peter cattaneo , who both turned up oscar nominations . 
how did this movie with a budget under 10 million gross over 175 million worldwide ? 
its been rumored that this film may be the second most profitable movie of the year ! 
and to think its about male exotic dancers , and not sinking ships . 
six steel workers who have been recently been laid off and are all looking for jobs . 
inspired by the success of a chippendale's production , gaz ( robert carlyle ) decides they should all put on a strip show to make some money quickly . 
as the six team up to put on the show of their lives , they run into a few problems . 
for instance , dave ( mark addy ) is worried about his weight , horse ( paul barber ) thinks he may be inadequate , and gerald ( tom wilkinson ) is worried about his reputation and timing . 
so when the night of the show comes , will the men be able to do the " full monty " ? 
as i said before this is a fun movie , and not just that its really artistically good . 
the writing and direction are great . 
the acting is appealing , all the performances have a human quality to them , so you can relate to at least one of the characters . 
the full monty received four oscar nominations including best picture . 
which left me wondering one thing , why didn't trainspotting get a best picture nomination last year ? 
while the full monty is a great lighthearted comedy , it doesn't carry the social impact of the brilliant trainspotting . 
still , the full monty is a great film , a must see ! 
with the release of gattaca , i began to wonder why all science fiction films deal with destructive aliens , or aliens in general . 
hollywood has given audiences plenty of thrills with those alien films , but what was usually lacking was a good story . . . 
and good characters . . . 
and good acting , etc ( contact being the exception ) . 
and for some reason , hollywood has never taken a look at the aliens here on earth . 
the closest , that i have seen anyway , was 2001 : a space odyssey , which made mankind an alien race themselves , being dwarfed by the technology which they created . 
now comes gattaca , another film about technology reigning supreme , except here on our planet . 
the difference between 2001 and this one is simple : gattaca is more frightening . 
most of the concepts of this movie are based on recent discoveries in genetic engineering . 
using this premise , writer/director andrew niccol creates some genuine suspense and thrills . 
unfortunately , due to a lack of advertising , i fear gattaca may fair horribly at the box office . 
since seeing the film , i have been asking people if they have seen gattaca . 
lately , however , i have been asking them if they have even heard of gattaca . 
most people don't even realize that it is a film . 
despite this fact , i surely hope that the audience members who have seen this film will tell their friends about it . 
niccol's film deserves more than what independence day made because it is smarter , better produced , and more realistic . 
gattaca begins in the 21st century . 
procreating is now done in a petri dish , and genetic engineering is the normal way of doing it . 
natural child birth is considered old-fashioned . 
we are introduced to jerome morrow ( ethan hawke ) , an employee of the gattaca space program . 
one of the directors of the program has been murdered , and the main suspect is one vincent freeman . 
the only problem is that jerome morrow is vincent freeman . 
vincent was born the natural way when his parents decided on bringing their first child into the world through love . 
however , after his birth , and through several genetic tests , doctors tell his parents that he will have a 99% chance of a weak heart , as well as poor eye sight and a short life span . 
as a result , both parents decide to bring their next baby into the world via genetics . 
anton ( loren dean ) is produced without flaws , and the competition between brothers spawns . 
vincent has a dream to fly a solo-flight around the titan , the 14th moon of saturn , but because of his condition , gattaca , and society in general , forces him to do menial labor around the company . 
labeled an " in-valid , " vincent's dream seems impossible , until he meets a black-market dna specialist , german ( tony shalhoub ) . 
german introduces him to a " valid " who has been paralized from the waste down due to an automobile accident . 
jerome morrow ( jude law ) agrees to give vincent all the proper identification tools ( urine , blood , skin and hair samples , etc . ) that he will need to get past gattaca's tight security . 
in exchange , vincent will provide jerome with the rent money and friendship . 
after the murder , however , his dreams are put at risk due to one of vincent's eyelashes left at the scene of the crime . 
irene cassini ( uma thurman ) is a genetically flawed " valid " working for gattaca , and she begins to fall in love with vincent/jerome . 
gattaca is one of the best science fiction films i have seen in a long time . 
only two other intelligent science fiction films have come out in the past two years ( contact and the arrival ) and gattaca will rank among them . 
unfortunately , whenever one intelligent film comes out against special effects-laden films , it normally gets buried . 
the second best thing about gattaca is the production design by jan roelfs . 
the orange glow of gattaca's scenes are impressive , but the sets deserve most of the credit . 
the sets are very well done , creating a futuristic sense , but not too futuristic as to alienate viewers . 
as we look at the designs , we realize that these buildings aren't too far into the future . 
this brings the plot even more credibility as genetic engineering becomes more possible by every passing day . 
the best thing , however , is the plot . 
the story is more than your average sci-fi/thriller . 
at its heart , it develops a theme which is never overpowering but is always present . 
perhaps niccol is warning our race about the changes genetic tampering could bring . 
would our society become a bunch of soulless zombies ? 
maybe human nature is a result of mankind's flaws . 
if we get rid of flaws , do we get rid of dreams as well ? 
niccol's intelligent script handles all these questions extremely well , and the result is an incredibly smart thriller set against a dramatic story , or vice versa . 
the power of the actors brings a lot of credibility to flat characters . 
while flat may sound like a poor job on niccol's part , it actually enhances the meaning behind the story . 
ethan hawke has developed into a handsome adult actor , giving his best performance of his lifetime so far . 
his curiosity and motivation pushes his character past all the discouraging remarks from his parents and " valid " peers . 
uma thurman is . . . well , uma thurman . 
her character is slightly underdeveloped , but the story isn't about her . 
however , thurman gives a lot of depth to the flat character . 
jude law gives the most complex performance of the film with the most disturbingly realistic character . 
he provides several nice touches , and his final scene is a very touching and heartwrenching one . 
loren dean gives a nice performance in his well-developed character . 
dean is also responsible for some of the most suspenseful scenes in the movie . 
alan arkin portrays one of the detectives with a little less more excitement than with his psychiatrist in grosse pointe blank . 
still , he does a good job . 
gore vidal and xander berkeley both provide some very good supporting roles , and berkeley also gives a heartfelt discussion towards the end of the film . 
gattaca is rated pg-13 for brief violent images , language , some sexuality , and nudity . 
despite the somber and desolate mood of the entire film , i wasn't exactly prepared for the ending which left me feeling empty . 
it turned me off slightly , but then i realized that everything turned out the way it should have . 
if this had been a typical hollywood film , it would have ended much differently . 
however , with all the mindless science fiction films out there , it is nice to have a film which doesn't talk down to its audience ( i especially like the ironic title and how it consists of the four letters which make up the genetic coding : g , t , c , and a ) . 
instead , it provides some much needed entertainment which gives us science fiction fanatics just what we want : a science fiction film with morals behind it . 
whatever happened to giving the audience a lesson while entertaining ? 
hopefully more writers and directors will learn from gattaca . . . 
and hopefully audiences will too . 
p . s . personal note to p . j . gladnick : how dare you call this film the worst film of the year . 
i can't even begin to image what film you do like . 
that frightens me beyond anything . 
it must be some sort of warped critical nightmare : the best movie of the year would be a summer vehicle , a jim carrey vehicle at that . 
and so it is . 
_the truman show_ is the most perplexing , crazed , paranoid and rib-tickling morality play i've seen since i-don't-know-when . 
don't credit carrey . 
it starts with andrew niccol ( gattaca ) , who created the script ten years ago . 
the story , replete with sublte religious and philisophical undertones , is about a man who discovers that every day of his existence has been televised for a mass audience . 
 ( ironically , it was within these past ten years that " reality-based " television have become a predominant fixture into our culture . 
who knew ? ) 
one-upping niccol , it was when unlikely candidate-director peter weir took the helm that things fell into place . 
weir had the nearly impossible task to create the unimitible tone , deftly mixing capra with kafka , throwing george bailey in a universe inhabited by rod serling . 
it was weir's first stroke of genius to create seahaven : a suburban paradise/prison that would make spielberg cower in shame . 
for example , bystander-extras would walk around the block incessantly with flowers along with the latest issue of _dog fancy_ . 
the nicest touch are the plethora of subtle hints for truman to _not_ leave the island . 
credit weir for his second stroke : the casting of carrey . 
carrey seems to be the type of character actor who would always turn " on " and act goofy whenever the camera is near . 
not here . 
his performance is so subverted you sometimes wonder if he is ever aware the camera is on . 
and although carrey does not deserve an academy award nomination ( just as well , the academy rarely honors goofy comedians , excepting robin williams ) , he stretches enough to alter his hyper-silly image considerably . 
playing one who has the cameras constantly invading his most intimate moments turns to be quite the role of jim carrey's life . 
no pun intended . 
better in a smaller , more pivotal role is ed harris as christof , who mixes the right amount of his apollo 13 " work the problem , people " character with dustin hoffman's megaglomaniac producer in _wag the dog_ , and then only slightly svengalian . 
it is clear that he is torn between the nielson ratings and truman's well being . 
yes , in his own misguided way he loves truman as a father to a son , and has provided the best universe he could provide . 
he thinks . 
rounding out the cast is natascha mcelhone ( mrs . 
dalloway ) as carrey's true " forbidden love " , sylvia , very effective in another pivotal small role . 
laura linney ( congo ) and noah emmerich ( copland ) have the unfortunate task of playing truman's wife and best friend ; their sitcom-ish dialogue allow little room for any authentic character development . 
the exception is at the very beginning , where they speak into the camera , wholeheartedly believing that their participation is truly good for truman , and for society in general . 
there are other little problems with the script . 
are we to assume that toddler truman had no recollection of hearing the construction of such a gigantic dome during his formative years ? 
was there any reason as to why in one scene , it rained solely on truman , even though it never had to ? 
how is it they hire hundreds of extras , and none of them could drive a boat , and yet truman , fearful of water , is helming a sailboat effortlessly ? 
and couldn't christof have turned off the wind , to strand truman at sea ? 
these little contrivances , however , do not hold a candle to the overall effect of the work . 
the audience gets the feeling that it is watching the actual show , and we are drawn to truman's mundane existence for no other reason than it is there . 
the final result effortlessly combines the emotional happy ending of a mainstream picture with a gnawing discomfort that hits you square in the gut . 
upon leaving the theater , i was looking up in the sky , wondering if it was nothing more than a gigantic dome . 
just checking . 
now , lets first look into the history of shark films . 
there was the unforgettable jaws . 
the exciting jaws 2 . the rather flaky jaws 3d and sometime in the late 90s another film of the same genre that i can't seem to recall ( about the son of jaws returning to wreak revenge or something like that ) . 
now , with the magic of cgi , one shark is simply not enough ; in deep blue sea , there are 3 big , mean and really smart ones ! 
russell frankiln ( jackson ) visits aquatica ( a sea-bound research center ) , where a research is being conducted on the extraction of a hormone substance found uniquely within the shark brain that can cure and reverse the effects of alzheimer's disease . 
the substance is small in quantity and because of this , lead researcher dr . susan macalaester genetically alters the shark dna and grows them twice the size with brains as big as humans , naturally producing more of the much treasured hormones . 
as sure as the sun sets in the west , a shark breaks lose and wreaks havoc within the facility during a hormone extraction procedure . 
with the flexibility offered by cgi , the sharks get more full-length screen time as their predecessors did in those remote-controlled rubber suit days . 
gone are the days of people getting pulled under the water with the water turning red right after . 
this time , we get to see the entire gobbling action , with floating limbs and all . 
so-so acting , expected in most of your average action film . 
jackson ( fresh from his jedi master role in the phantom menace ) , takes on the dark-side force of a different kind and fits well with his wise-cracking lines . 
ll cool j's cook role as preacher , does for this film what steven seagal's cook could only dream to achieve in his two under siege films . 
deep blue sea does not offer any of the psychological thrills that jaws has to offer . 
it does however , prove to be a refreshing follow-up within the genre , full of visual thrills , suspense and believe it or not  humour ! 
its like jurassic park under water . 
nothing too stressful , pure entertainment . 
renny harlin , you are forgiven ( for making cutthroat island ) . 
this is the best british gangster film since the long good friday . 
jon bennet ( played by andrew howard ) is an extremely good assassin . 
as such he is probably an evil man but it does not worry him . 
he has become an unquestioning weapon . 
he is in the employ of a kingpin ( david calder ) far more evil than he is . 
but even assassins have innocent pasts . 
he runs into an old from school days and he is married to a mutual girl friend from school . 
complicating matters is that they live near where he had a recent job and their young daughter may have seen him at the crime . 
a big piece of what makes this film work is the depiction of the kingpin . 
calder is a familiar actor in britain , though not frequently seen in the us . 
he was seen in the world is not enough . 
here he creates one of the best screen villains in recent years . 
he is at once seductive and repellent like a beautiful venomous snake . 
his lair is underground , apparently in a sewer , where he lives like the king of sewer rats . 
it is the kingpin who pulls the strings that will control bennet's life . 
paul sarossy who directs spent most of his career as a cinematographer and like the kingpin's lair , he has molded images of class and style out of the darkness . 
by using semi-darkness and letting the colors of deep blue and black dominate every scene he makes the film visually as ominous as anything in this nether world . 
this is a world that is cold and unfriendly . 
sorossy creates a world of violence much more by what we hear than what we see . 
this is a film with a great deal of physical violence occurring just out of reach . 
we see very little but we hear a great deal more and we imagine more than that . 
the screenplay is by peter waddington based on the novel by neil cross , but it is sarossy's film all the way . 
it creates indelible images of evil . 
i rate it an 8 on the 0 to 10 scale and a low +3 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
 ( i do hope they do not use the tagline " don't mess with mr . in-between . " ) 
produced by robert lantos & stephen j . roth 
directed by douglas williams 
mpaa : not rated ( though from language , violence , medical-gross-outs , and sexual content , i'd put it at pg ) 
though made in canada , " overdrawn at the memory bank " traces its roots to the bbc school of film production . 
using , for the most part , cheap computer and video special effects , chyron text , wildlife documentary footage , and sets that are sometimes obviously faked up , it nonetheless manages to tell a good enough science fiction story that by the time you're twenty minutes into it , you should be hooked . 
raul julia plays aram fingal , a drone data processing worker for novicorp whose active imagination and predilection for hacking gets him into trouble with authority . 
caught watching " casablanca " on his desk monitor , fingal is sentenced to " doppling " rehabilitation--he is to spend forty-eight hours in the body of a baboon . 
 ( how exactly this is supposed to rehabilitate him is anybody's guess . ) 
as it happens , thanks to a visiting schoolboy's prank , his body is temporarily misplaced , and his mind has to be shunted into the central computer to keep him alive until they can find it . 
as time ticks away before his memory cube self-destructs , the frantic search for his body is on . . . while 
fingal first creates a virtual reality fantasy world , then finds there's no better way to hack the system than from the inside . 
during the chaos , computer technician apollonia james ( linda griffiths ) maintains contact with fingal through a datalink , manifesting several different times to offer advice or warnings . 
over the course of their interactions , interest on both their parts grows into a budding romance . 
given that " casablanca " is fingal's favorite film , and the basis for his fantasy world , a great deal of the movie is homage to " casablanca " . 
in fact , the humphrey bogart and peter lorre characters make appearances ( played by julia in a dual role and louis negin , respectively ) in a bar called " the place " . 
julia's portrayal of bogart is passable , and avoids becoming the " schweethaat " -spouting parody seen in cartoons . 
negin's peter lorre is quite credible , and easily the best peter lorre i've ever seen who wasn't the real thing . 
the two of them , as characters created by fingal's imagination , serve as aspects of his personality , driving him on in his quest to hack the computer system . 
those aren't the only casablanca characters to put in appearances . 
the sydney greenstreet character also happens to be around . . . as " the fat man " , the alternate aspect of the film's main villain , the novicorp chairman ( donald c . moore ) . 
while fingal's body is lost , the fat man tries to stop him from hacking the system . . . with 
less than salutory results . 
it's interesting to note the futuristic slang words that are thrown about left and right during the film , in the best golden-age science fiction tradition . 
words like " dopple " , " psychist " , " computech " , " cinema " , and " reconst " are apparently in common use . 
and while people of today may well laugh at fourteen years past's idea of futuristic data processing clerks , some aspects of this film are surprisingly perfectly in keeping with the way we think of " virtual reality " today . 
as cyberpunk films go , this may not be a staple of the genre , but it's definitely recommended viewing . 
the special effects are very primitive , placing this production in the realm of low-to-medium-budget television . 
the music is completely electronic-synthesized , which fits the low budget but isn't really out of keeping with the genre . 
however , the writing quite makes up for it . 
there are some very funny moments , and quite a few little in-jokes that one needs to have seen " casablanca " to appreciate properly . 
all in all , i give " overdrawn at the memory bank " a . 
i remember hearing about this film when it first appeared at cannes over a year ago , picking up the grand jury prize at the festival . 
'holocaust comedy receives standing ovation' , the headlines read . 
intrigued by this statement , i looked up information on the film and found that , sure enough , life is beautiful is in fact a comedy about the greatest atrocity of the last thousand years . 
even though the movie was extremely well-received by critics and public alike , i couldn't help but be disgusted at this notion ; human tragedy is not something i feel should be celebrated . 
only now do i see the error of my ways . 
after finally viewing the film for myself after avoiding it for some time , it became clear that it is not , as the headlines proclaimed , a " holocaust comedy " ; on the contrary , life is beautiful does not even really depict the graphic events that took place in nazi deathcamps . 
rather , it focuses on the relationship between a father and his son , who he is trying desperately to shield from the horrors of their situation . 
roberto benigni ( who also wrote and directed the movie ) stars as guido orefice , a chaplin-inspired clown and all round jolly guy who , as the film opens , is vying for the affections of an attractive school teacher ( nicoletta braschi , benigni real life spouse ) . 
through the course of the first hour or so , we see guido striving to get the attention of this " beautiful princess " , as he calls her . 
employing the magic of laughter , the italian comedian wins her heart and together , they raise a young boy named giosue ( child actor giorgio cantarini ) . 
life treats them well until hitler's minions rise to power , and the family is whisked away to a german camp , where guido becomes convinced that he must upholds his son's innocence no matter what the sacrifice . 
granted , it contains some uproariously funny moments both in and out of the concentration camp , but it does not pull a " hogan's heros " and make light of the slaughtering of some six million innocent jews . 
somehow , it achieves hilarity without disrespecting it's gravely serious subject . 
so , we've established that life is beautiful is not a " holocaust comedy " . 
but , there is another complete misrepresentation of this material that really disturbs me . 
the film , despite critic's declarations of it being a " triumph of the human spirit " , is no such thing ; not in my eyes , anyway . 
some have called the story an " affirmation of the beauty of life " , but i say it is a very dark and bleak statement about man's capability of denial masquerading as an endearing comedy . 
the film's ending has been recognized as the most entirely uplifting moment of any film released recently , but i found it to be truly discerning and upsetting . 
essentially , life is beautiful is quite possibly the greatest hoax in the history of film . 
however , i am not denying the movie's greatness . 
believe me , it's fantastic . 
i'm just saying that i think benigni did something different than what most people are interpreting it as . 
but perhaps i'm reading more into the movie than is really there . 
maybe the film's brilliance relies on the idea that the viewer can interpret the meaning of it in any way they see fit . 
in fact , maybe roberto benigni has made a film that is the sole argument for the old saying that you get out of a movie exactly what you put into it . 
most movies seem to release a third movie just so it can be called a trilogy . 
rocky iii seems to kind of fit in that category , but manages to be slightly unique . 
the rocky formula of " rocky loses fight/rocky trains/rocky wins fight " is carried out to the letter . 
also the 'tradition' of showing the last five minutes or so from the past rocky film is used as well . 
this movie begins with a series of clips showing how famous rocky ( sylvester stallone ) has become . . . 
even showing a brief appearance on sesame street ! ! 
then it moves on with rocky being in a fixed fight with thunderlips ( hulk hogan ) . 
a mysterious bad-ass known as clubber lang ( mr . t ) trash-talks to rocky about his stupid decision to retire from boxing and that he " pities the fool " for not coming out and fighting him outright . 
rocky's trainer ( burgess meredith ) tells rocky not to fight , but the italian stallion doesn't listen . 
naturally , he gets his ass kicked . 
somewhere along the line after this several things happen . 
rocky's longtime trainer dies , causing rocky to train with his former opponent apollo creed . 
rocky's wife complains to her husband that he should fight . 
the final fight ensues between clubber and rocky . 
guess who wins ? 
the winner's name rhymes with 'smocky' . 
the movie is entertaning mainly because of clubber lang's over the top performance . 
the dramatic aspect has been toned down considerably since rocky ii and now action seems to be the strong point of the film . 
which is good if you like fighting scenes . 
the last match is quite decent actually . 
if you liked the previous films , rent this one . 
it's well worth seeing if you are a fan of the series . 
but if you can't stand rocky shouting " adrianne ! ! ! " 
one more time , see something else . 
review : a dog of flanders is the story of an adorable little boy named nello and his trials and tribulations in 19th century flanders . 
living with his grandfather jehan ( jack warden ) in poverty , nello finds happiness in his life in spite of difficult times ( they are renting a spare one-room cottage , and the greedy , malevolent landlord who owns it threatens to throw them `out of the house' if they don't pay the rent ) . 
nello also has a rather creative talent for drawing some of the most beautiful pictures that i have ever seen , in either a movie or in real life . 
 ( his hero is peter paul rubens , the great flemish painter of the 17th century . ) 
not that these are the only things that make nello's life happy , however . 
he has a dog of flanders , whom he names patrasche , who is a heroic rin-tin-tin of the 19th century , whom he rescues from his cruel , unkind master . 
in addition , he even has a best friend ( and future sweetheart ) in the lovely , wealthy aloise , whose father strongly disapproves of her hanging out with `lower-class' nello . 
 ( he thinks he's not good enough for her , and he would hate the idea of the two kids marrying . ) 
but then , he was a poor guy himself before he married ( as mentioned later on in the film ) . 
one day , nello encounters a mysterious , yet kindhearted artist named michel la grande ( played wonderfully by jon voight ) , who tells the boy to keep drawing from his heart , and that perhaps one day he might land a career in being an artist . 
and every christmas , there is a contest on which is the most beautiful painting of the year ; the winner getting a lot of money . 
eager to save his home ( and his aging , dying grandfather ) , nello willingly decides to become an artist , asking aloise to pose for him . 
one night , the two travel to a circus , where they have their fortune told ? one of the film's most delightful scenes ? that great happiness is destined for them . 
she gives the kids a ring , whom nello places on aloise's hand . 
 ; ) afterwards , the two kids have a rollickingly good time dancing around in front of circus performers . 
unfortunately , things are not all `la-dee-dah' in this tale . 
aloise's father finally becomes so angry with nello that he forbids him to ever see aloise again . 
bad enough that they can't see each other ( although we know nello and aloise , don't we ? ) , but that's only the start of nello's troubles . 
aloise's farm is burned down , and nello is wrongfully accused ( by the landord of his cottage ) for starting the fire in order to take revenge on being forbidden to see aloise . 
this decreases nello's reputation around the town , save aloise and her parents , and a kindly miller , william , who is very sweet to nello every time he drops by . 
matters get much worse for nello when his grandfather dies , and he has to pay for his funeral . 
but then things really get nasty when the landlord exiles nello from his own home ( for not paying his rental ) ? permanetly . 
this means that nello and patrasche have to starve and walk out in the cold , freezing wind . 
worst of all , the painting that he has desperately been working on during all this time , `the portrait of the princess' , fails to win the prize at the festival . 
now nello and patrasche are really depressed , and close to freezing to death . 
will nello be able to find any happiness in his life ? 
will patrasche save the day ? 
will nello make the fateful trip to join his mother and grandfather in paradise ? 
a dog of flanders is a delightful , heartwarming family film that is sure to entertain kids of all ages . 
even older ones who consider themselves too `sophisticated' for kiddie fare will be surprised to hear that this film is for grown-ups , too . 
there have been other movies of this ilk ( boy and dog ) , and while this one falls into that category , it is mostly a story about overcoming difficulties and finding a good home for yourself . 
move over ? or rather , roll over ? old yeller , this dog of flanders is a heartwarming delight . 
the cinematography , courtesy of walther van den ende is beautiful , and really adds to the powerful drama of the film . 
it also gives a feel of being in flanders ( the whole film was respectably shot in flanders ) . 
the music from richard friedman is also remarkable ; an evocative , poignant score that recaptures music from the 19th century . 
the opening song over the credits is very beautiful ( i hope the soundtrack is available ! ) , and there's a brief excerpt of `cheer up , charlie' from willy wonka and the chocolate factory ( sung by aloise , to nello , in another delightful scene ) . 
the cast is first-rate : jesse james and jeremy james kissner , who play nello , are some of the most endearing , adorable young stars i have ever seen in my whole life ( so are the girls who play aloise , madyline sweeten as the younger , and farren monet as the older ) . 
not that they are the only good stars , however . 
jack warden is ideal as jehan , eliciting just the right amount of humor and compassion required for the character . 
 ( the scenes involving him and nello are heartwarming , touching ones . ) 
also , bruce mcgill is charming as the kindly miller william . 
he's another one of my favorite characters in the film . 
but jon voight , as i mentioned before , is the perfect choice for michel . 
he brings a mysterious , yet gentle performance that makes us all feel good again when he reassures insecure nello that he * can * win the contest . 
but what makes this film fun to watch is how well-defined the characters are , and the pace of the story ( best of all , it has a happy ending ? though i will * not * give it away ; sorry ) is strong and powerful enough for us to identify with the characters . 
for the first time since the beginning of 1999 , there comes a film which doesn't rely on popular formula stuff , such as big-budget special effects , commercial rock soundtracks , or any of that stuff . 
this one relies on telling a fully character-oriented story , with just the right amount of heart , humor , and drama . 
that , to me , is what makes a dog of flanders all the more delightful . 
eleanor o'sullivan of `the home news & tribune' noticed this , and was kind and generous enough to welcome it : `for want of a better word , a glow surrounds a dog of flanders . 
its heart is in the right place and it engages you . 
you can guess where the film is going because this is well-traveled territory , but with pros like voight and appealing young performers like kissner , an often-told story is well worth a revisit . ' 
in addition , there were a couple of other enthusiasts , such as chicago-sun times and the washington post ( you should read their reviews ; they're really positive ) . 
other critics , however , were not so kind . 
stephen holden of `the new york times' had more than a share of beatings to lay upon a dog of flanders via pen writing . 
he found the film to be a `sea of sugary bromides' and condemned mr . voight's character as `hopelessly wooden ? adopts an accent even more indeterminate than the one he came up with for anaconda . ' 
in addition , `entertainment weekly' slam-dunked the film , condemning it as `the worst family film of the year . ' 
there have been so many other bad reviews like this , too . 
my suggestion : disregard the critics . 
they just have a big problem with touching family films , and one should never pay attention to them . 
this dog of flanders may only be a little `family' movie ( it probably won't be a big hit in the style of titanic , but then again no other film has been since then ) , but that is not a bad thing in and of itself . 
this is a story that is sure to warm your heart , and that is what really matters about a dog of flanders . 
it is also one of the better family films around this year . 
none of the other films i have seen this year ( though they were good ) have been so low-key and touching . 
if you're looking for family-style entertainment , look no further than this charming boy-and-dog yarn . 
go see it while you still can , for as i mentioned , it might not be a big bow-wow at the box office for a long time . 
see it while you can . 
there is really no need to compare a multi-million dollar blockbuster such as star wars : episode i ? the phantom menace or tarzan , or even the iron giant with a tender , sweet little family movie . 
do film critics have morals ? 
are there any unwritten laws an ethical movie critic would or should follow ? 
naturally we don't want to go into a film with any preconceived notions , which is pretty tough but something we all have to accomplish . 
secondly , and along the same line , we can't prejudge a film because of it's stars , director , etc . the difference ? 
well , in the first one , we'd go into a film thinking it's going to be dumb or it's going to be good , and that would affect our viewing ( that movie sounds and looks dumb , so i'm not expecting much ) . 
on the second hand , we're simply assuming it will be bad or good because of a personal " grudge " against the film company ( it's made by disney ? 
oh , it's just a merchandising ploy then ) , the actors ( jim carrey's in it ? 
it's gonna stink ! ) , or the director ( who ? 
can't be that good ) . 
this is more of a biased viewpoint as opposed to a first impression viewpoint . 
make sense ? 
ok , but what about comparing ? 
isn't that kind of along the same lines ? 
when we compare a certain actor or director or even composer's credibility in one film to another they were involved in , is that really fair ? 
sure , in sequels you can expect and accept comparisons a lot more , but what about jackie brown , for example ? 
is it fair for me to take the review and turn it into a comparison of pulp fiction , just because quentin tarantino directed and wrote the screenplay for both ? 
i think it is , and i'll tell you why . 
a good critic should be able to view the film from the " average joe ( or jane ) " viewpoint , while still taking into account the artistic integrity behind the film . 
sometimes that can be tough . 
 " the acting was superb , but i was bored " or " i loved it ! ! 
it was sooooo cheezy ! " 
might be used to describe a film . 
these are contradictions , and a critic has to weigh both sides and come to a suitable balanced critique . 
but which is more important ? 
and which is better ? 
an extremely well shot and acted film that is boring , or a really amateurish film that you wanna go back to again and again ? 
getting back to the point , my philosophy on comparing films being fair works because we're reflecting what the public wants to know anyway . 
every average person out there who's interested in this film is likely to ask " how does it compare to pulp fiction ? " 
and so , as a critic , i'm already responsible to ask that same question . 
jackie brown stars pam grier , the " blaxploitation " heroine from the 1970's , who is likely to make a big comeback thanks to her role as the title character . 
tarantino's pulp fiction is in big part responsible for john travolta's sudden revival in the movie industry , and with talks of an oscar nomination , the same is likely to happen for grier . 
 ( we've made it thru comparison #1 ! ) jackie is a 44-year-old airline stewardess who brings in extra cash , and probably her main revenue , by smuggling large sums of money into the united states for ordell robbie ( pulp fiction's samuel l . jackson and comparison #2 ) . 
ordell is in the illegal firearms business and has enlisted the aid of louis gara ( robert de niro ) , a bank robber who just got out of prison after serving four years , to help him accomplish a scheme worth a half- million dollars . 
trouble arises when jackie is stopped by atf agent ray nicolet ( michael keaton ) and taken into custody for possession of narcotics , as well as having more money than is allowed in an airport without being claimed . 
naturally this proves an obstacle to ordell's plans and , not as friendly intended as we'd hope , he posts jackie's bail after she is put behind bars . 
the thing is , ordell is in this for no one more than himself , and as we learn from his previous actions , he's willing to kill anyone who stands in the way . 
jackie finds herself in a tight squeeze . 
ordell won't think twice about taking her out if she fails to help him as she's always done , yet at the same time , a compromise with the authorities would be in order if evidence against ordell was provided . 
it comes down to a simple question : would jackie rather face ordell or prison ? 
what ensues is a rich and intriguing example of storytelling as we question who jackie is really out to help : the law , ordell , or maybe just herself . 
coming into play is another 70's veteran , robert forster as jackie's bail bondsmen max cherry . 
max's obvious fondness for jackie will become a major benefactor in her fight to beat both sides of the system , and forster plays him with subtle charm that adds depth to unbrewed romance . 
also involved is ordell's " surfer girl " girlfriend melanie ( bridget fonda ) , a ditzy sun- bleached babe who spends her time watching tv with a bong in hand . 
fonda does the best she can with an essentially thin role , but there's nothing more to her , and therefore , she becomes a tossable addition to an otherwise flourishing bouquet of characters . 
de niro is also wasted in his role as a quiet nobody crook out to score a few bucks for himself . 
de niro is a brilliant actor , but a character who hardly ever speaks doesn't need a de niro to play him . 
compared to pulp fiction ( comparison #3 ) , the characters in jackie brown and very thin and replaceable . 
in pulp fiction , even the small , seemingly irrelevant characters were wonderful , complete , and lifelike , whereas jackie brown has such common figures that it wouldn't have suffered much with a lesser talented cast , the exception being grier . 
tarantino wrote this script with grier specifically in mind , so to say that she is made for this role is a reversed truth . 
sadly , grier too could have received a bit more attention , especially when the story is all about her newly-jarred perception of life . 
jackson teams up with tarantino again , but the chemical reaction isn't as awesome as the first time . 
jules was the rambling , bible-quoting hitman in pulp fiction , and jackson is the only person who could have pulled it off . 
and although jackson is really , really good in jackie brown , i don't think he's quite as irreplaceable . 
in fact , maybe a new face would have been better . 
jackson could've remained tarantino's jules , and a new guy could have become ordell , forever to remain so in our memories . 
sadly , these characters are too much the same , except ordell just isn't as impressive , and putting this in the hands of jackson once again is only going to deter from our fond recollections of jules . 
another problem is that ordell is way too focused on in the beginning . 
this is grier's film , so why spend so long getting to know a man who will become more of a supporting character as the film progresses ? 
it not only makes the movie feel a little too slanted , but it makes for a slow beginning because we have to take longer getting to the meat of the story . 
it is likely that those pouring into the theater to see this film are going to be those anxious to partake of tarantino's quirky dialogue and eccentric directing style , and not so much those interested in seeing a silver screen adaption of elmore leonard's novel " rum punch " . 
for those movie-goers , don't expect another pulp fiction and you'll be satisfied , for the script oozes with the familiar brash qualities that has made tarantino an icon of 90's film- making . 
the directing has toned down a bit , however , yet we're still reminded that this is tarantino's movie thanks to odd split-screen story-telling devices and scenes being replayed multiple times from different viewpoints . 
so getting back to the question that i began with , this isn't pulp fiction at all . 
it's good , but it isn't anything that made pulp fiction such a revolutionary effort in the first place . 
this is a more conservative tarantino , but not one that won't satiate true fans . 
if you can realize that this isn't going to knock your socks off , then you'll be happy to at least let it massage your feet . 
after all , we all know how much tarantino loves that particular part of the human anatomy . 
synopsis : retiring detective jerry black ( nicholson ) becomes involved in the case of a murdered girl , and promises her parents that he will find the killer . 
he purchases a gas station on a route he believes the killer takes , and there befriends lori ( wright penn ) and her young daughter . 
as jerry and lori fall in love , can he do what must be done to fulfill his pledge ? 
review : at first , " the pledge " appears to be just another standard , if well-executed , crime drama . 
it is anything but ; in its final hour , it turns the corner and becomes a riveting , terrifying study of its lead character , jerry black . 
penn pays attention to all the trappings of the serial killer genre , but they are just window dressing . 
his interest here , unequivocally , is jerry , a man so haunted by his pledge that it consumes the entirety of the his existence . 
at first , we see this only in small hints ; some of his habits change , for instance , and he suddenly takes up smoking in a big way . 
but then , when jerry buys the gas station and befriends lori , the true extent of his mania draws horrifyingly into focus . 
nicholson is fantastic , portraying black with rare subtlety and animus ; jerry's gradual descent into obsession is like a car wreck , a thing horrible to look at but impossible to turn away from . 
penn coaxes good supporting performances from much of the rest of his cast , too . 
only eckhart disappoints as jerry's replacement , stan ; he never seems entirely convincing , too much a tool of the plot . 
penn's direction is astounding , each frame looking as though it is parched -- of water , perhaps , or of sanity . 
it all builds up to a shattering , devastating climax which lingers uncomfortably in the mind long after the house lights have come up . 
one never quite knows what one is going to get with a mamet film . 
his american buffalo is a set-bound piece that has very little plot . 
sometimes he will tell a story that really moves . 
heist is mamet doing his most entertaining work . 
unlike his the spanish prisoner , there are no lapses in credibility . 
heist is probably the best mamet thriller since house of games . 
it is the kind of plot with which you are never sure who will double-cross whom , and frequently it is mamet double-crossing the viewer . 
watching the film's team getting around security the viewer is frequently asking himself either " what the heck are they doing ? " 
or " why didn't anybody think of that before ? " 
appropriately enough heist opens with a very clever jewelry store job . 
it is so clever that one wonders if mamet really thinks up all these ideas himself or if he has help from professional magician and con expert ricky jay , now a regular actor in mamet films . 
this is a robbery that works like a well-oiled machine . 
there is just one problem and it is enough to get joe moore ( played by gene hackman ) filmed on a security camera . 
now joe has to get out of the business . 
it was coming time anyway . 
joe's team including bobby blane ( delroy lindo ) , fran moor ( rebecca pidgeon ) , and pinky pincus ( ricky jay ) is going to split up and go separate ways . 
but crime boss bergman ( danny devito ) is pulling the strings and he says that joe and his people have to manage one more robbery . 
and he has to take along a young kid , the short- fused jimmy silk ( sam rockwell ) . 
immediately it is obvious that there is more going on than meets the eye . 
much of what distinguishes heist is mamet's dialog . 
remarkably it serves a double purpose . 
the robbery team sounds at once very professional and at the same time it has mamet's special feel for dialog . 
hackman has lines like " everybody needs money . 
that's why they call it money . " 
mamet's timing is perfect in the direction but terrible in the production . 
the plot is coincidentally a lot like the plot of the recent the score , which is , in fact , a very similar story . 
both are good films , perhaps for some of the same reasons . 
but at least on a high level they are much the same story . 
the other problem with the timing of heist is that it involves airport security and clever ways to get around them . 
i saw the film at the toronto international film festival on september 12 , 2001 . 
that made the subject matter just a little too timely . 
my understanding is that the release will be delayed . 
my biggest problem with the film is that rebecca pidgeon's acting at times seems very poor . 
it is some kind of mamet trademark i do not understand to have women talk without inflection , as if they are just reading the words for the first time . 
it is an irritation and distracts us from what is otherwise a very good thriller . 
it is one i rate an 8 on the 0 to 10 scale and a high +2 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
'contact' shows why jodie foster is one of our best actresses . 
see contact with your family . 
it is a movie for all ages . 
--a review by stuart cracraft 
contact starring : jodie foster , matthew mcconaughey , john hurt director : robert zemeckis star 
after a predictable mit phillip morrison powers-of-10 zoom-out start ( which can be surprising to those not familiar with prof . morrison's work ) , contact picks up steam , gradually , building , by-the-end , an irresistable juggernaut and a very good movie that does not as is so often the case fall out-of-balance in terms of too much pandering to the technological " geek " side . 
by the end , the audience is left with what good science fiction is supposed to do : evoke a sense of wonder about the universe and evoke questions in your mind about what's out there . 
this movie does not let technology overshadow characterization and in this sense it is unusual amongst high-tech movies . 
however , except for jodie foster ( elie arroway ) and john hurt ( s . r . 
hadden ) , who are both actors of exceptional caliber , the supporting cast are not especially impressive . 
hurt certainly has had better roles ( stephen ward in scandal ) . 
this one , as the multi-billionare hadden , does not do his acting skills justice . 
this is clearly a foster movie by one of the great hollywood lights of our generation . 
foster's radiance has never been more strong than in the scene where she finally meets the vegans on their terms . 
early scenes take a long , long time to build up to this . 
the movie's pacing is very good and subtle . 
the panoramas of the radio dishes at arecibo and ceti in new mexico and puerto rico are beautiful . 
the politics of foster's character attempting to obtain funding for research at these places are trite and predictable however . 
one of the most entertaining , but very short scenes , is when foster is confronted by rob lowe , during a cabinet-level presidential meeting to discuss the alien invitation . 
there were real sparks in this scene between foster and lowe and it would behoove them to consider other vehicles in which this dynamism could be explored . 
it is the only scene in the movie in which there were tremendous dynamics between two characters . 
everything else was very one-sided ( e . g . 
foster ) . 
lowe can stand up to foster and it showed in that scene at the cabinet table . 
the core scene of the movie is set on a surrealistic beach on a far-away world in the starsystem of vega . 
it feels a lot like science fiction writer john varley's scenes in his book steel beach , where the female protagonists encounters an immensely superior intelligence , in one case a computer manufactured by mankind itself , and in foster's case , an illusion drawn from her memory . 
in another sense , this immensely moving scene evokes gene roddenberry's star trek pilot the cage , later the menagerie , when jeffrey hunter and susan oliver have their memories manipulated to create new worlds in which they live and encounter aliens . 
the concept is not new , by any sense , in the world of science fiction . 
but the beach scene , which is the centerpiece of the film , as is the whole film , is driven by foster . 
freed from her needs to direct by director zemecki , foster is able to let it all hang out in the characterization and the lead she provides to her supporting cast . 
as the movie gains speed , foster's acting intensifies and the audience really does experience it with her . 
it is certainly oscar-caliber acting , unquestionably . 
the supporting cast does well and zemeckis throws in some humor with some president clinton cameos , cleverly manipulated , george stephanopolus-style , to seem very forrest gump . 
in fact , zemeckis et . 
al . 
got in trouble for the usage of some of the footage seen in the movie , vis a vis clinton . 
but the audience i attended this movie with just had some good chuckles at clinton's walk-ons . 
the much-discussed tension between science and religion in this movie is not particularly insightful to those who have already gone through this course though it is helpful to those in the audience who have not . 
also , the near-final scene , in a senate judiciary hearing room is disappointing . 
contact is a fitting memorial to the memory of carl sagan , science popularizer , and sometime pedantic gadfly of the halls of academe . 
perhaps now , sagan can be said to be with his dragons of eden . 
like the wonderful 1990 drama , " awakenings , " starring robin williams and robert de niro , " at first sight , " directed by irwin winkler , is inspired by a true story documented by physicfirst sight , " directed by irwin winkler , is inspired by a true story documented by physician oliver sacks . 
since " awakenings " was so very good , and made my top ten list the year it was released , " at first sight " is not quite as strong since it is not directed with as sure a hand as penny marshall , but is still an intelligent and vibrantly-acted drama . 
the film begins as amy ( mira sorvino ) , a stressed-out new york architect , decides to take some time off and travel upstate to the country . 
at the hotel she is staying at , she makes a massage appointment and after a long , soothing session which ends with her crying as a release of emotions , she strikes up a conversation with the handsome masseur virgil ( val kilmer ) , only to find out later that he is actually blind . 
amy doesn't really care if he has a handicap or not , and begins to spend time with him more and more until they finally start to fall in love . 
once she has returned to new york , amy begins to research on virgil's certain type of retinal blindness , which he has had since three years of age , and out of a stroke of luck , comes into contact with a doctor ( bruce davison ) who believes he can repair virgil's sight , even though there have only been thirty similar cases in history . 
at first reluctant , virgil finally travels with amy to nyc and agrees to the surgery , much to the hesitance of his overbearing , but loving older sister ( kelly mcgillis ) . 
ultimately , the surgery is a success , but problems arise since virgil cannot relate to what he sees , since he has never visually seen anything before , only touched objects . 
he moves into amy's apartment and she is eager to stand by him , but virgil's maladjustment begins to put a strain on their relationship . 
on the basis of the overall story , " at first sight " is indeed a film that has been done many times before , and owes a great deal to its predecessor , " awakenings . " 
what will happen throughout the film can also be easily telegraphed in advance . 
however , what helps " at first sight " rise above this predictability is in the mature and intelligent relationship that develops between virgil and amy . 
usually , romantic pictures are of the shameless puppy-dog sort ( the recent tom hanks/meg ryan-starrer " you've got mail " immediately pops to mind ) , but with this film , i grew to care more about the characters and their plight . 
the film starts off noticably well as amy travels up north and first meets virgil . 
the massaging sequences were strangely erotic , maybe even more so than the later actual " love scenes , " and as their romantic involvement quickly developed , the film was both entertaining and sweet , and there was clearly a lot of chemistry between the two . 
these joyous moments early on balanced out well with the later scenes in which their relationship is seriously tested due to a contrast in the life styles that they have always known , with virgil completely used to being blind and having a comforting , peaceful life in the country to amy's eventful life in the " big city . " 
the other major compliment that must be given to the film are the nearly flawless performances across the board . 
val kilmer , usually cast in the " macho " type of role , was always believable as a blind person , and playing his character was probably a little more tricky than it appears . 
it was up to kilmer to not come off as someone to pity , but to sympathize with , and he pulled it off . 
mira sorvino , who made a spectacular debuting splash in 1995's hilarious woody allen comedy , " mighty aphrodite , " for which she won a well-deserved oscar as a kind-hearted , but ditzy hooker , is a standout here . 
although she has made some mediocre film choices since then ( 1997's " mimic , " 1998's " the replacement killers " ) , she always has managed to come out unscathed , and it is with " at first sight " that she finally has another juicy role to play . 
in a truthful climactic scene set in amy's apartment between she and virgil , sorvino proves to be one of the most gifted young actresses around today , and has a flare for both comedic and dramatic pieces . 
kelly mcgillis , who could have easily come off as the " bad , " one-dimensional sister , instead is also given an unexpectedly multifaceted character to play as a woman who may be overly protective but simply cares for her brother . 
finally , nathan lane , who is usually a little too over-the-top , is appropriately restrained as a vision therapist . 
the one misstep of " at first sight " is in its treatment of the medical procedure done on virgil . 
very little is ever said or discussed concerning it , and when the surgery occurs , it is so briefly glimpsed at that it is impossible to see what is being done to his eyes . 
perhaps the reason this aspect of the film was not more in-depth was that the makers were afraid it would gross out audiences , but i would personally take realism , even if it is graphic , any day over simply giving the explanation of the surgery the cold shoulder . 
in " awakenings , " the patients and illness were far more satisfyingly portrayed . 
because of how strong the screenplay , written by steve levitt , is in the way it deals with the main relationship , and because of the fabulous performances from kilmer and sorvino , the film's few problems can be swept over to the side . 
the adult way that the romance is depicted by director irwin winkler is , no doubt , in respect to the real-life couple that the film was inspired by , who are still together after many years ( even though the setting of the film was changed to new york ) . 
since january is usually the time of year that is known as the dumping ground from bad movies , " at first sight " comes as a refreshing and sophisticated change of pace . 
in the company of men made a splash at the sundance film festival because , in a year plagued by brothers mcmullen-style , earnestly shallow gen-x angst pictures , it seemed to be actually about something . 
it angered people , started arguments outside the theater , riled things up . 
it ignited a spark of excitement in what otherwise has been a disappointing year for independent film . 
having endured my share of the hype , i waited calmly for men to reach the hinterlands wherein i reside , and then checked in to see what all the fuss was about . 
does men live up to its press ? 
well , yes it does . 
and it may make you think twice before you consider dating anyone your office . 
for the uninitiated , newcomers aaron eckhart and matt malloy play chad and howard , two corporate drones who are dispatched by their nameless company to a remote branch office for a six week assignment . 
chad and howard are archetypes , examples of which you can no doubt find in your own place of business . 
chad is the blond golden boy , genetically engineered for success , the natural charmer who seems to glide effortlessly up the corporate ladder . 
howard is chad's boss , but he is weaker of will , the clumsy practitioner of office politics who has achieved his position through dogged persistence rather than raw talent . 
we first meet them awaiting their flight in a drab airport lounge . 
there chad suggests a scheme worthy of a shakespearean villain : he and howard will find a vulnerable single woman at the branch office , woo her simultaneously , win her love , and then dump her . 
the reason ? 
both men have recently been dumped themselves , and chad sees an easy route to revenge against the fairer sex . 
 " it'll restore a little dignity to our lives , " he says . 
howard , helpless against the force of chad's will , agrees to the plan . 
they quickly spot their prey in the form of christine ( stacy edwards ) , a fragile deaf woman working as a temp . 
chad moves in for the kill , flashing his golden boy smile , plying christine with lunch , then flowers , then dinner . 
howard follows suit , though his efforts are in contrast ham-handed and desperate . 
flattered to have the attention of two eligible men , christine dates them both . 
you can guess which one she falls for . 
soon a tragic lovers' triangle develops : christine loves chad , chad loves himself , and howard loves christine on the grounds that , since she's handicapped and shy , she just might be wretched and lonely enough to settle for him . 
adult social interaction never really progresses beyond the level of junior high , does it ? 
in chad , writer/director labute and actor eckhart have created one of the most chilling monsters ever committed to film-hannibal lector may eat human flesh , but chad is an eater of souls . 
his evil is as subtle as a viper's , and as easy as his smile . 
we watch in stunned disbelief as he back-stabs coworkers , humiliates his subordinates , and works his deadly venom into christine's heart . 
his character would be a joke if he wasn't so chillingly real- all of us have worked with a chad , and some of us may be him . 
he's the guy who takes your job and then laughs at you for your weakness . 
if one of his co-workers should happen to go postal and walk into the office with a bag full of handguns , he had best have his escape route clearly in mind . 
politics is his game , and the modern cubicle-filled office is his playground . 
men wears the guise of a black comedy , but it functions best as allegory . 
the most controversial moment in the film happens when chad humiliates a black temp by asking him how badly he wants to succeed in the company , then forces him to prove it in a manner i won't describe . 
the scene is charged with racism and fraught with peril . 
could it happen in the real world ? 
probably not . 
taken as allegory , however , it is representative of the treatment of the meek by the powerful in all facets of society . 
maybe it's just the english major in me , but chad , in his motiveless cruelty towards christine and his careful manipulation of howard , can be seen as a symbol of unbridled capitalism , of greed without conscience . 
the entire film is a metaphor for social darwinism- only the strong will survive . 
the marvel of labute's multi-layered script is that it can disturb each member of its audience in an entirely different way . 
but does the film work as entertainment ? 
its darned funny in spots , particularly in the men's room scenes , which demonstrate the lengths to which guys will go to hold a conversation while engaged in the most basic of bodily functions . 
it works less well as drama , since by necessity the characters in an allegory tend to be flat ciphers . 
stacy edwards gives a measured dignity to christine , and succeeds in making us care for her , but by the end of the film we still know nothing about her . 
likewise , chad and howard are simply the sum of their actions . 
by the end of the film you'll feel as if you've met a genuine monster in chad ; perhaps we can also classify men as a horror film . 
certainly those expecting a conventional hollywood resolution to the story will walk away disappointed . 
but the picture is often mesmerizing , and the script is a work of fine craftsmanship , which makes it well worth your time . 
like all good films , it offers a myriad of parallels to the outside world . 
while watching chad in his moment of triumph , i couldn't help but think that bill gates must have felt the same sort of cold , merciless satisfaction when he finally stuck it to steve jobs . 
there may be a little bit of chad in all of us , but some of us have taken chad-ness to the level of art . 
the booming introduction music finishes , and the camera sweeps over red mountains . 
we see two figures looking over a barren , and very red landscape . 
they kiss , then walk on . 
one of the characters ( schwarzenegger ) slips , and falls . 
the glass on his mask cracks . 
his face scruches up , and his eye's begin to pop . . . . . 
then doug quaid , played by schwarzenegger , wakes up . 
it's all been a dream . 
he wakes up next to his beautiful wife , played by stone , and the film begins . . . 
total recall is a typical sci-fi film wrapped around an intresting ( if far fetched ) plot . 
quaid , who has never been to mars , keeps on having dreams of the planet , which has now been colanised . 
one day , while riding on a train , he's see's a ad for a company called 'rekall' , which implants memories of a holiday , instead of you actually going there yourself . 
quaid chooses the 'secret agent on mars' memory , and then the s * * * really hits the fan . 
the implant goes wrong , and quaid really thinks he is an agent on mars for about two minutes , until he goes back to normal and can't remember a thing . 
however , everyone he knows ( his workmates , his wife ) turn against him , saying how 'blabbed about mars' and 'blew his cover on the mission' a strange man , called richter , played by ironside , wants to kill him . 
quaid , now hopelessly confused , follows the advice given to him , by a 'friend' . 
he get's his ass to mars . 
mars is ruled by cohagen , played by cox , who charges people for air . 
against him are the rebels , who are mainly mutants . 
the rebel's need quaid to defeat cohagen , because quaid knows ( but can't remember yet ) about a reactor that produces air . 
eventually , quaid kills cohagen , turns on the reactor , saves the planet , and goes away with a beautiful girl , just like the guy at rekall promised him . 
throughout this plot , there is huge explosions , thousands of deaths ( and i mean a lot of death ) swearing , sex , and everything else that make's a good verhoeven ( director of basic instinct and starship troopers ) movie . 
naturally , there's some pretty imaginative deaths , with arms getting ripped off , someone getting drilled , and heads exploding . 
as you can tell , it's violent stuff . 
but it's done so stylishly , and of course arnie tones it down with a one liner , that's it excusable . 
the acting is variable . 
arnie , of course , is useless , but he goes has some good lines , and in the first twenty minutes , he even act's like a normal bloke , not like some action hero . 
stone , of course , is useless , making a pretty poor wife , and a pretty poor action hero . 
but , she does sex scenes alright . 
ticoton ( most recently seen in con air ) , again , is ok , doing some good action , but getting her emotions all wrong . 
one minute she hates quaid , the next she loves him , and she never gets this tranisition right . 
so , the good guys are awful . 
but , the bad guy's are excellent . 
cox is basically reprising robocop , but he's still great in this , and he delivers the best line in the whole film near the end . 
ironside is superbly evil , with an utterly emotionless face . 
the supporting cast are fine , and not even the comedy sidekick ( this time in the form of a taxi driver ) is annoying . 
one disappointing aspect , though , are the special effects . 
ilm and dreamquest do some good work ( such as a subway station scene ) but the model work is not so good . 
some of the model heads look appaling fake , and quatto is a major disappointment . 
another irritating thing is the product placement . 
there are a lot of plugs ( and a good mars today gag ) however , the sets look great , and the special effects at the end of the film aren't too bad either . 
there's also a good soundtrack running through , by jerry goldsmith ( the omen , poltergeist , star trek : the motion picture ) 
overall , then , total recall is a hugely violent , yet hugely enjoyable , action fest , with a reasonable plot thrown in there too , some great bad guys , and some imaganitive death . 
for a schwarzenegger movie , this is not bad at all . 
in fact , it's very good . 
jonathan demme's _beloved_ , based on the book toni morrison , is a study in skillful literary adaptation . 
on the one hand , the film manages to recreate key moments from the novel , evoking morrison's pragmatic narrative style without using her authorial voice . 
on the other hand , beloved omits the some of the finer details of the book , favoring an ambiguously defined back story upon which to build the story's main events . 
this choice is a smartly made one , for it creates an open space in which the story's wide range of emotions can gestate and grow . 
indeed , the impact of the film is so protracted that much of it cannot be felt until long after the end credits have rolled . 
_beloved_ takes place in the second half of the 19th century , during the so-called reconstruction era after the civil war . 
for newly-freed slaves , it is a time of confusion and turmoil . 
oprah winfrey is sethe , a slave who escaped a kentucky plantation and took her children to an ohio farmhouse , where she hoped the terror would end . 
what she did not know was that it would follow her there , and remain with her long after the physical threat had vanished . 
_beloved_ ultimately tells the story of sethe's search for forgiveness , one long-hampered by an unforgettable sin . 
the film starts off on a dreary day ten years after sethe's escape , as a violent , unseen energy rocks her dilapidated farmhouse . 
invisible hands terrorize her family , flinging objects across rooms , shaking tables , rattling floorboards . 
sethe's sons run away , perhaps for good , leaving sethe and her daughter denver to fend for themselves . 
demme's matter-of-fact handling of this supernatural element is just one of _beloved_'s intriguing aspects . 
all of the characters take for granted that ghosts are real . 
when paul d ( danny glover ) -- a former slave who escaped kentucky along with sethe -- arrives at the house eight years later and is confronted with the ghost's hellish visions , he doesn't run in terror . 
instead , he asks who the ghost is . 
as in morrison's novel , demme quickly establishes that the horror of the story will not come from the fact of the ghost itself , but from the terrifying past in which the ghost was created . 
sethe is the one being haunted , but the ghost in the house is the least of her fears . 
in fact , the ghost is one of the reasons she chooses to stay . 
the story takes an bizarre turn with the appearance of beloved ( thandie newton ) , a young black-clad woman who appears on sethe's front lawn , leaned christ-like against a tree stump . 
sethe and denver immediately take to the rasping woman and try to nurse her to health . 
they know not who she is , but that doesn't matter . 
only paul d is suspicious of the stranger . 
little does the family know that beloved will bring about many changes , and force sethe to release a guilt she has held onto so urgently for eighteen years . 
winfrey is arguably beloved's greatest asset . 
she inhabits the role of sethe so convincingly it is hard to believe this is the same woman who shines brightly on a tv talk show . 
lisa gay hamilton does an impressive job in the emotionally demanding role as the younger sethe , whose appalling actions make her the disturbed woman we see eighteen years later . 
danny glover is affable as the sympathetic paul d , as is kimberly elise as denver , sethe's wanderlusting daughter . 
as sethe's sage-like mother-in-law old baby suggs , beah richards authoritatively commands every scene in which she appears . 
the film's least palatable choice of casting is unfortunately that of the role of beloved herself . 
thandie newton plays the glassy-eyed girl with a demented fervor which is endearing at first , but which becomes off-putting and unintentionally laughable by the end . 
departing from the honed aesthetic he used in such films as _the silence of the lambs_ and _melvin & howard_ , director demme has used a bit of dramatic overstatement to get across the vivid descriptions in morrison's novel . 
totemic camera shots and color-saturated scenery are decidedly uncommon in demme's films , but the few he uses here work to the film's benefit . 
_beloved_'s most memorable scenes are those of baby suggs' gatherings in a forest clearing , where the bright yellow-greens of nature entrance the viewer as much as suggs' words do . 
for the most part , though , demme maintains his trademark directorial neutrality . 
this , combined with morrison's equally frugal method of storytelling , may make _beloved_ somewhat of a challenge to watch , even to those familiar with the book . 
though the film compliments the book extraordinarily well , it falls short in allowing the sort of accessibility one usually expects from a film . 
nothing is spoon-fed to the viewer . 
morrison's novel is just as enigmatic , but unlike a movie , a book can be put down to allow the various undercurrents and themes to churn and absorb . 
the movie begins like _poltergeist_ , and ends like _the color purple_ , with shades of _the scarlet letter_ and _little women_ somewhere in the middle . 
taken as a whole , beloved is a disquieting , one-of-a-kind experience , one to be viewed with guards down and spirits in abeyance . 
scream 2 isn't quite as clever as its predecessor , but it fills the gap with a cutting wit . 
death -- even gruesome , bloody death -- can be funny if handled the right way ( some will be offended by this statement , but you need look no further than pulp fiction for an example ) . 
and , while there's plenty of horror to go around in scream 2 , the latest '90s slasher flick incarnation , there are also a few laughs to be had . 
scream 2 is a slice-and-dice movie for those who don't take their horror too seriously . 
the success of the original scream took everyone in the industry by surprise . 
the unexpected blockbuster , whose gross soared over the $100 million mark during its six month release window , opened just about a year ago and turned into one of the most profitable horror films of all time . 
a sequel was inevitable ; fortunately , nearly the entire creative team has returned for scream 2 , including director wes craven , screenwriter kevin williamson , and actors neve campbell , courtney cox , david arquette , jamie kennedy , and liev schreiber . 
as stipulated by one of the " rules of sequels " uttered by a movie- obsessed character in the film , the body count in scream 2 is higher than that in the original . 
paradoxically , there's a lot less gore . 
there is blood , of course , but nothing excessive by slasher-movie standards , and there are no depictions of spilled entrails . 
craven has remembered that scares are more important that graphic displays of human insides and bodily fluids . 
a second strength of scream 2 is that it features a gallery of legitimate characters rather than a group of cardboard cut-out stereotypes lined up for slaughter . 
after all , we've known some of these people for two movies -- it's almost impossible not to care about them at least a little . 
scream 2 opens approximately two years after the original . 
as in the first picture , there's a slick , self-mocking prologue . 
this time , the victims are jada pinkett and omar epps , whose characters are visiting a local theater for a preview screening of the movie stab ( which is based on the " true life " events of scream ) . 
some of the smartest dialogue comes during this sequence as pinkett bemoans the lack of african american participation in horror films ( it's surely no coincidence that , in addition to pinkett and epps , scream 2 features two black characters ) . 
shortly thereafter , she and her boyfriend have been gutted , signaling the beginning of a series of copycat murders . 
craven lets loose a burst of tongue-in-cheek creativity for the " movie within a movie " sequences . 
they give him an opportunity to openly parody scream -- an act that he accomplishes with great panache . 
stab features heather graham in the " casey becker " role ( played in the original by drew barrymore ) and tori spelling as " sidney prescott " ( neve campbell ) . 
sadly , we only see a couple of scenes from stab . 
it would have been a little more fun , i think , had craven used joe dante's approach from matinee and shown lengthy excerpts from his satirical production . 
following the prologue , we are re-introduced to sidney prescott , who has left her sleepy hometown to go to windsor college . 
her friend randy ( jamie kennedy ) is a student there as well , and he's just as knowledgeable about horror films as ever . 
once the double murder at stab becomes big news , the media converges on windsor , looking to interview the original victim . 
at the head of the flock of vultures is gale weathers ( courtney cox ) , who has a little surprise for sidney . 
she has brought cotton weary ( liev schreiber ) , the man sidney falsely accused of murder , with her . 
also arriving at the college is deputy dewey ( david arquette ) , who is there to act as a big brother to sidney during this latest round of tribulations . 
in addition to the survivors from the original scream , the field of potential victims is well-populated . 
there's a blond co-ed named cece ( sarah michelle gellar , who has now appeared in two of williamson's movies -- this one and i know what you did last summer ) ; sidney's requisite boyfriend , derek ( jerry o'connell ) ; a local newswoman ( laurie metcalf ) ; gale's new cameraman ( duane martin ) ; a british drama teacher ( david warner ) ; and several sorority sisters and would-be sorority sisters ( portia de rossi , rebecca gayheart , elise neal , marisol nichols ) . 
ultimately , there are lots of attractive corpses . 
from the stab scenes to lines like " brothers don't last long in situations like this , " craven and williamson are clearly having a lot of fun with scream 2 , and the movie is enjoyable , if a little overlong ( the livelier first hour is better than the second ) . 
their resolution to the obligatory " whodunit ? " 
is less of a letdown than it could be , and knowingly offers a wink and nod at past unmasking scenes . 
 ( " nice twist , " quips the killer . 
 " didn't see it coming , didya ? " ) 
one senses , however , that , by the end of this picture , the overall concept of a hip , self-referential slasher film has been played out . 
supposedly , there's going to be a scream 3 , but , if the film makers don't come up with something radical , we could end up with a classic case of sequel overkill . 
when 17 year old beau hall ( jonathan tucker , " the virgin suicides " ) gets in a car accident after drinking with his 30 year old companion , club owner darby reese ( josh lucas , " session 9 " ) , his mom , margaret ( tilda swinton , " the war zone " ) pays reese a visit to convince him to leave her son alone . 
instead , reese travels out to their lake tahoe home and lures beau out to the boat house where beau learns that his mother was right about reese . 
the next morning margaret discovers darby's dead body on their beach and , suspecting the worst , weights it down in a distant part of the lake . 
but her troubles are just beginning , as she soon learns with the arrival of blackmailer alek spera ( goran visnjic , " practical magic " ) in " the deep end . " 
the incredibly pale , red-headed scottish actress swinton immerses herself into the role of the reserved american super-mom whose life revolves around serving the needs of her three children and live-in father-in-law jack ( peter donat , " the game " ) . 
she shows great strength while allowing other emotions to glimmer through - discomfort at challenging reese in his gay disco ( named the deep end ) , near panic at having to dive down to his body to retrieve car keys , or even wry humor when an attempt to get help from jack becomes hopelessly miscommunicated . 
gradually her loneliness becomes apparent ( her husband's a naval officer , usually away at sea ) when her attempts to email him her concerns about beau are deleted and later , when a most unusual , yet chaste , romance turns tragic . 
it's a terrific performance . 
the stendahl syndrome-like script , adapted from elisabeth sanxay holding's 40's noir novel 'the blank wall' by directors scott mcgehee and david siegel , would be unbelievable if not for swinton and her costar visnjic . 
alek spera is a wrong side of the tracks loser who arrives after reese's body has been discovered . 
he shows margaret a videotape of beau having sex with reese and demands $50 , 000 or he'll turn the tape over to the reno police . 
subsequent visits will turn his mind set upside down and backwards , though , as he comes to admire and even love the woman he set out to blackmail . 
there's yet another problem , though - his partner nagle ( raymond barry , " dead man walking " ) is a harder cored criminal who won't let up until his share of the money is delivered . 
visnjic's dark , brooding turn has an interior shading to it that makes us believe he's a victim of circumstance and environment . 
his turnaround is palpable as he witnesses margaret's inherent decency and her workaday surroundings . 
also outstanding is tucker as beau , who has a terrific character arc and pas de deux with his mother . 
initially beau's the typical sullen teen . 
'you're blowing this out of proportion , ' he says of her concerns about reese , not comprehending that his mom has enough insight to have divined the true nature of the relationship . 
as his mom gets in deeper and deeper trying to cover up a crime he didn't commit , beau becomes suspicious of her actions and apparent new companion , turning tables . 
his early black eye becomes her later split lip . 
while the two can never be completely honest with each other , their love for each other comes through strongly . 
the directors ( " suture " ) have a firm grip on their material and cast . 
the story builds perfectly with bold strokes amidst a myriad of subtler underpinnings . 
water imagery is constant ( an early shot of weirdly rushing green is revealed to be a young boy cleaning out an aquarium ) . 
giles nuttgens ( " fire " ) cinematography , which won the 2001 sundance festival award , is crisp and startlingly clear . 
the tahoe locations and production design by kelly mcgehee and christopher tandon provide a dual personality for the film , contrasting the calm , well off existence of the lake against the gambling city of reno . 
 " the deep end " is a complex story of domino deeds and shifting relationships . 
take the plunge . 
leonardo decaprio ( what's eating gilbert grape ) and claire danes ( tv's my so called life ) star in director baz luhrmann's modernized version of william shakespeare's classic , romeo & juliet . 
surrounded by a superb supporting cast , in-cluding paul sorvino ( goodfellas ) , brian dennehy ( tommy boy ) , pete poslethwaite ( the usual sus-pects ) and john leguizamo ( executive decision ) , decaprio and danes shine throughout the film . 
the story starts off at a gas station , where the " montague boys " meet the " capulet boys " and square off with one another . 
symbolizing the swords of shakespeare's day were their weapons , like the " rapier-9mm " or the " longsword- shotgun . " 
instead of killing each other right away , they shoot around , just like in sword fights of old . 
another great thing about the film was the performance of harold perrineau as romeo's best friend . 
mercutio , who in shakespeare's novel was quite a stud , was portrayed as an afri-can-american cross-dresser whose violent na-ture , was a definite plus . 
miriam margoyles , a virtually unknown actress was astounding as juliet's nurse , even though she was never given a name . 
she was the only one who could keep juliet out of her fantasy world . 
verona was the home of the rival families in shakespeare's version , only slightly changed in luhrmann's . 
now known as verona beach , the capulet's ( led by sorvino ) and montague's ( led by dennehy ) are now rival corporate dynasties . 
and their small family skirmishes were now huge gang wars . 
one slight problem with the film was the difficulty to comprehend the dialogue , since it was spoken in old english . 
sub-titles could have helped in the beginning of the movie , but toward the end , it became easier to understand . 
this excellent movie poses another prob-lem : what genre is it ? 
romeo & juliet contains so much drama , yet enough comedy and action to be placed in either of those categories . 
with the same award-winning formula that was used by quentin tarantino in reservoir dogs and pulp fiction , romeo & juliet is a sure fire modern masterpiece . 
 , 
voices . . . . . trey parker , matt stone , george clooney , minnie driver . 
 " south park : bigger , longer and uncut " is undoubtedly crude , offensive , mean-spirited movie , that comes off as a politcally correct movie too . 
if your canadian , a strong christian , fat , gay or anything else , you will be offended . 
but when you watch this movie , there is no doubt that you will laugh . 
based on the wildly popular comedy central tv show , south park stars cartman , an overweight , foul-mouthed kid , with attitude , and a sweet side . 
kenny , a poor kid who gets killed in every episode , and talks with his coat hood covering his head . 
stan a regular , sometimes boring kid who has problems with women . 
and kyle a lonely jew who talks to his poop . 
the movie opens with a funny , but messageable song , that all of the people of south park sing . 
cartman , stan , kenny and kyle are very excited to see the new terrance and phillip ( beavis and butthead types ) movie " asses of fire " . 
but when the kids get up to the movie to get the tickets , they learn the movie is rated r , which of course means that anyone under the age of 17 cannot get in without a parent or legal guardian . 
the kids do not understand this , and they pay a homeless man to buy their tickets . 
while in the movie , laughing at the movie , terrance and phillip cuss repeatedly entertaining the kids . 
they kids then go out and cuss themselves , getting in trouble and causing kyle's mom to go against the mpaa . 
while doing this kenny learns a thing or to , by proving to cartman he can light his fart on fire . 
kenny does so , dies , and goes to hell , to find out that satan and saddam huiessan ( homosexual lovers ) , are about to take over the world , if terrance and phillip die . 
>from here on , nothing more should be said to keep the rest a surprise . 
but believe me , this isn't your regular south park tv show , and should not be seen by anyone under 14 or more . 
this film contains extreme profanity ( over 130 " f " words and a collection of others ) . 
but beyond being bad in a tasteless type way , south park : bigger , longer and uncut has many messages that are embedded inside it . 
but i bet you will not leave the movie , for at least laughing one time or more . 
and enjoying yourself . 
take it from me , south park : b , l , and u , isn't as good as you'd hope , but it is good for some laughs . 
why do people hate the spice girls ? 
 ? what exactly have they done wrong , other than perhaps offend the fashion police ? 
 ? so what if they are not " great " singers---they ain't singing opera , folks , its pop music ! 
 ? who exactly is a " great " singer ? 
judging by that opening paragraph it is obvious that i like the spice girls . 
 ? they do what they do--sing some catchy tunes--and they do it pretty well . 
 ? they are able to carry that into their first film , " spice world " . 
 ? " spice world " certainly isn't a great filmgoing experience . 
 . 
 . 
what it is what the spice girls are all about : fun , songs , and a lot of " girl power ! " 
drawing from a number of different films ( like the beatles' " hard day's night " ) " spice world " chronicles the week heading up to the girls' first concert at london's albert hall . 
 ? they get to tool around london in a big ol' bus ( driven by meat loaf ! ) and generally have fun . 
 ? in order to through a semblence of plot into the film , there is an evil tabloid publisher played by barry humphries , better known to americans , for about 15 minutes , as dame edna ( remember her ? ) 
 ? he wants to sabotage the girls' concert so he can sell papers . 
of course , the point in a movie like " spice world " isn't plot . 
 ? the center of the film is the spice girls themselves : ginger ( the recently departed geri haliwell ) , posh ( victoria adams ) , sporty ( melanie chisolm ) , scary ( melanie brown ) , and baby ( emma bunton ) . 
 ? each one has their own personality and , perhaps the best part of the film , look like they are having some honest-to-goodness fun , something that can't be said for a lot of people in films today . 
along for the ride are richard e . grant as their manager , clifford , and various other characters making quick cameo appearances ( including teriffic british actors like richard briers and stephen fry ) . 
 ? and , every once and a while , roger moore pops up as the chief to spout odd koans ( added bonus : he gets to , in the words of craig kilborn , dance , dance , dance . ) 
watching this film was fun , for the most part . 
 ? there are a few slow segments , but overly , director bob spiers keeps things moving at a quick pace , with plenty of hummable spice girls songs in the background . 
 ? his camerawork is fairly pedestrian , though the final concert number is done quite well with effective use of editing . 
 ? 
the look of the film promotes the high fun , with the design of the spicebus being quite original and eye-catching . 
 ? add in wall-to-wall spice girls music and this film is lovable romp . 
 ? if you don't like the spice girls , you won't change your mind with this film . 
 ? but , if you find them at least tolerable , get ready to sit back and chill because the spice girls are here to entertain you . 
 . 
 . 
and do it quite well . 
 ? 
 " spice world " ( 1998 ) . 
 ? directed by bob spiers . 
 ? written by kim fuller . 
 ? music by the spice girls . 
 ? with geri halliwell , victoria adams , melanie chisolm , melanie brown , emma bunton , richard e . grant , claire rushbrook , roger moore . 
 ? distributed by columbia pictures . 
 ? running time : 92 minutes . 
 ? rated : pg . 
 ? available on home video . 
---- 29 june 1998 
more than forty years ago , the " sword and sandals " genre of historical epic ruled the box office . 
during the 1950's hollywood sought to give audiences a reason to turn off their televisions and go out to the movies by offering the grand spectacle of the roman empire in cinemascope . 
 " ben-hur . " 
 " cleopatra . " 
 " the robe . " 
 " sparticus . " 
 " the fall of the roman empire . " 
 " quo vadis . " 
sometimes brilliant , sometimes campy , the roman epic was the technicolor funeral pyre of classic hollywood . 
since then , epics have appeared infrequently ( " the last emperor , " " braveheart " ) and some of the best have been small-screen affairs produced in the 1970's ( " roots , " " shogun " ) . 
yet , the phrase " we who are about to die salute you " has been absent until now . 
 " gladiator " begins in germania in a . d . 180 . 
roman general maximus ( russell crowe ) has conquered yet another group of barbarians for his emperor marcus aurelius ( richard harris ) , and he is eager to retire to his plantation in spain where his wife and son are waiting . 
however , the emperor is worried that his decadent weakling son commodus ( joaquin phoenix ) will prove a poor successor , so he wants to make maximus his heir as a transition toward rome becoming a republic again . 
when commodus hears the plan , he strangles his father and orders maximus and his family murdered . 
maximus escapes from the executioners , but he arrives home too late to save his wife and son . 
a caravan of slavers pick up the wounded hero and carry him off to north africa . 
 ( why the caravan happened to be cruising by maximus' place is never explained . ) 
an african named juba ( djimon hounsou ) treats maximus' wounds . 
proximo ( oliver reed ) , a gladiator who won his freedom , purchases maximus and juba as fodder for the arena . 
of course , maximus proves as able a gladiator as he was a soldier , and his fame spreads . 
when commodus reopens the coliseum , proximo brings his troupe of warriors to rome to compete . 
our hero wins the hearts and minds of the cheering crowds and finds that he has an ally in commodus' sister lucilla ( connie nielsen ) . 
the similarities to " braveheart " are obvious : an evil king , a determined warrior seeking revenge for his murdered family , the aid of a lovestruck princess . 
also , like mel gibson's epic , " gladiator " has a primarily visceral appeal and is driven forward by the hero's anger . 
it's a simple tale of good versus evil . 
maximus has all the manly virtues : nobility of purpose , courage in battle , loyalty to king and country , physical stamina , and devotion to family . 
commodus is his opposite in every way : a sniveling , selfish coward who is intended to disgust the audience . 
the opening night crowd in my theater was about 70% male , and that seems appropriate . 
 " gladiator " is a guy movie ( would the opposite of a " chick flick " be a " dick flick " ? ) . 
there's much pumping of testosterone and chopping off of body parts in gruesome battle sequences . 
 ( those easily offended by gore should stay away . ) 
lucilla is the only female character , and what sparks there are between her and maximus are dampened by his devotion to his dead wife . 
joaquin phoenix gives an astounding performance . 
in the scene where commodus kills his father , phoenix shows the pain of a son who has never had his father's love or pride . 
throughout the picture , phoenix manages to give depth to a character who's scripted as a caricature of evil . 
i've been a russell crowe fan since " romper stomper . " 
this role doesn't offer him the complexities of his parts in " l . 
a . confidential " and " the insider " -- essentially his job is to grunt heroically -- but his voice , which has a richard burton resonance textured by a clint eastwood rasp , is perfect for the genre . 
the late oliver reed gave us the best work of his career in his last role . 
i hope it will be rewarded with an oscar . 
my only major quibble with " gladiator " is its stylized look . 
several scenes are tinted . 
we've seen a lot of the tinted look lately , particularly in " payback " and " the matrix . " 
i don't get the appeal of the style , which makes feature films look like tv ads . 
in " payback " it was merely annoying , but in " gladiator " it bleaches the color out of the grand spectacles that are the raison d'etre of the roman epic . 
 ( perhaps it's meant to gloss over the imperfections of the computer-generated shots . ) 
also , the battle scenes are filmed in a strange herky jerky style that seems to be slo mo and fast forward simultaneously . 
 ( it reminds me of the way the flash runs in the comic books , leaving a half-blurred trail of images of himself behind . ) 
with a more realistic look , " gladiator " could be even more satisfying than " braveheart " because it has a tighter script and a more fulfilling conclusion . 
bottom line : a rousing action film enriched by fine performances but tarnished by stylistic choices . 
the andromeda strain is the greatest science fiction film ever made . 
i know that is very sweeping statement , so i'll qualify it by adding that the andromeda strain is one of the few films made that genuinely deserve the label of " science fiction , " stories in which speculative science is at the core of the plot . 
2001 : a space odyssey is probably a better film , but it really only qualifies as science fiction if you consider metaphysics to be a science . 
most all other films we normally classify as science fiction , or sf , are really just fantasy , action or horror stories set in a futuristic setting . 
the andromeda strain starts out with two soldiers in a high-tech ( for 1970 ) van looking for a crashed satellite in a tiny new mexico town . 
something bad happens to them . 
pictures from a reconnaissance plane show a shocking sight . 
apparently everyone in the town is dead . 
the authorities call a " wildfire alert , " summoning four scientists , all but one of them somewhat reluctant , to a super-secret underground germ warfare laboratory in nevada . 
two of scientists , stone and hall , fly directly to the town in space suits and find a town where almost every single resident literally dropped in their tracks , their blood turned to powder in their veins . 
some went insane before they died and two of them , a baby and an old wino , are miraculously still alive . 
they take the survivors and the satellite back to the lab , where stone pressures the white house to call up a " directive 712 , " an executive order to cauterize the area around the town with a nuclear bomb . 
what they find on the satellite when they get back to the lab is andromeda , an organism that defies all the normal rules of earth-like life and mutates as it grows . 
their only hope to cure it is to find out what a perfectly healthy baby boy has in common with an old derelict . 
what they find out is that organism feeds directly on energy and that detonating the a-bomb over the town would only spread it across the entire planet . 
they barely call off the bombing in time . 
but then the organism mutates into something that threatens to eat through the labs defenses and break out . 
this triggers the lab's last-ditch defense mechanism , an atomic bomb . 
to those raised on the brainless action fare that pollutes movie theaters these days , the andromeda strain will probably seem interminably slow . 
much of the film is a lot of people standing around looking at video screens and computer readouts . 
but what the characters see on those screens ratchets up the tension with every turn of the screw . 
the performances are universally fine , with the actors keeping things low-key and restrained , just like scientists . 
to me , the real appeal of this film is the fact that it shows scientists acting like scientists and makes it seem exciting . 
we follow the logic of their deduction step by methodical step , puzzling like they do every time andromeda behaves in a way we don't expect . 
this film is only available on wide screen on dvd and that is the way to see it . 
it was originally rated g when first released but it now carries the pg rating , mostly for very mild nudity and one scene in which a body's wrist is slashed , spilling its powdered blood . 
 " it's not good to know too much about someone , charlie , " charles warns his niece , charlie ( margaret welsh ) , with a devilish grin . 
charlie is infatuated with her namesake uncle , her " soul mate " as she calls him since her mother gave her his name . 
there's a lot to know about charles , not the least of which is that he strangled 3 widows back east . 
mark harmon , who looks like anything but a killer but specializes in playing them , plays charles , the merry widow murderer in the 1991 hallmark hall of fame remake of the 1943 hitchcock film , shadow of a doubt . 
and to avoid any questions about his guilt , we see charles in action in the opening scene with his last victim . 
the story takes place in the early 1950s in the small town of petaluma , california , where charles heads to avoid the police . 
john gay's script uses most of the original screenplay by sally benson , alma reville , and thornton wilder . 
karen arthur's direction is certainly no match for the great master , but on an absolute scale , the movie maintains a high level of suspense . 
when supercilious and deceitful charles comes to pay a visit of indeterminate length with his sister and her family in petaluma , they don't know about his nefarious activities . 
he showers them with elaborate gifts to buy the love they had already given him anyway . 
two mysterious and exceedingly clean-cut writers for a magazine show up to take pictures of the family for a spread on the " average american family , " but their interest is focused on uncle charles , especially on taking his picture and learning about his background . 
charlie , who first welcomed her uncle's visit , begins to feel more and more uncomfortable with him and suspicious of the disingenuous magazine reporters . 
the picture advances with a delicate power using small details such as the newspaper article that the uncle tries secretly to remove and that charlie discovers . 
the beauty of the story is the pas de deux between uncle and niece as they try to out psych each other . 
she wants him to leave , and he doesn't want to go , what with a local , rich widow as a prospective victim . 
will charles kill charlie first , or will she get him out of town . 
harmon is wonderfully creepy and smug , and welsh is tough but trapped . 
with a deft touch the director sets up each scene , several with thunderstorms , and tom neuwirth's sepia-toned cinematography makes the movie feel as if it were filmed in the 50s . 
my only quibble is the director's awkward staging of the final scene on the train . 
is hitchcock's version better ? 
of course . 
is this one worth watching as well ? 
actually , yes . 
shadow of a doubt runs 1 : 40 . 
it is not rated but would be pg for adult themes and would be fine for kids around nine and up . 
do you want to know the truth about cats and dogs ? 
do you ? 
well , as this movie shows us , they make good companions but pale in comparison to the joy and fulfillment romantic relationships can bring . 
unfortunately , there's a giant roadblock set up in our culture that only certain people can get through while the rest of us mill around outside , feeling sorry for ourselves . 
a checkpoint beautiful kind of thing , and janeane garafolo's character abby relates to it well . 
like a certain oversized teenage movie critic , she is intelligent and has a great sense of humor but strikes out with the opposite sex because she sees herself as physically unattractive , and the men seem to be backing her up on that . 
meanwhile , her gorgeous neighbor nora ( uma thurman . . . 
uma being the only woman's name worse than nora ) attracts men like flies . 
as abby tells her , " you burp and they think it's cute . 
you barf and they line up to hold your hair back . " 
but nora's down on herself for being too shallow and superficial . 
we all have our prwhen a man calls in to veterinarian abby's talk radio show wanting to know how to get the roller skates off his basset hound . 
 ( oh come on , any idiot knows how to handle that problem ! ) 
he likes her personality and professional demeanor and asks to meet her in person . 
abby , though , knows her body doesn't match her personality and that she probably won't have a chance with him once he sees her . 
so she gives him nora's body description and stands him up . 
nora happens to be in the studio the next day when the dog man comes by and abby asks her for a big favor . 
she goes along with the masquerade and the three of them head out for a night of fun , abby assuming the role of a goat cheese farmer named donna . 
the dog man finds out even though this girl is beautiful , she's not quite as intellectual or confident about herself in person , but he doesn't suspect anything , realizing he's not living in a " three's company " episode . 
the charade continues , with abby furthering the relationship over the phone ( including a decidedly unnecessary phone sex/masturbation sequence ) and nora furthering it in person , while eventually finding herself attracted to the dog man . 
like sleepless in seattle , this comedy/romance is predictable all the way through , but we care enough about the characters that we root them on and will the romance to blossom . 
the truth about cats and dogs isn't quite as entertaining as i was expecting it to be , but it handles well a theme i could identify with . 
the thing is , i find janeane garafolo rather attractive . 
she's no uma but i'm sure in real life she'd have no problems attracting men . 
i , on the other hand , couldn't attract a man to save my life . . . 
and am rather proud of that fact . 
alien 3 is the only alien film i have seen in theaters . 
i saw it when i was 13 years old , and i must admit that i didn't like it . 
of course , i was expecting aliens again , and i believe this was my fault . 
in order to appreciate alien 3 , you need to see aliens , but you also have to wipe away all the expectations from its predecessor . 
james cameron's aliens was an action film , and many people consider it the best in the series . 
i am among that group , but alien 3 is an extremely entertaining film , which critics have bashed for its originality . 
many thought the final chase scene went on for too long , and many others thought that the film was too much dialogue and not enough action . 
both are untrue , because the film has quite a bit of action , and the dialogue was essential and well-written . 
as for the chase sequence , it was long , but not overly long , creating quite a bit of suspense from confusion . 
perhaps watching alien 3 on video helped . 
on the big screen , i was overwhelmed by something i normally didn't see . 
it was a very dark film , and the language was extremely harsh . 
i had always figured the alien series to rely on smart dialogue instead of moronic profanities . 
don't get me wrong--i'm not saying films should eliminate swearing , but when a film substitutes dialogue with these profane remarks , it gets rather distracting . 
however , since seeing it again , i realize that the swearing is mainly just an aspect of the restrained hatred in the characters . 
as a result , alien 3's only flaw ( albeit a major one ) is the underdeveloped characters . 
we never really care about any of them , and i get the feeling that many scenes were cut in order to shorten the length of the movie . 
there were only two characters i liked , and of course one was lt . ripley ( sigourney weaver ) , although we have gotten to know her through two other films . 
the other character was dr . clemens ( charles dance ) , but because we like him , the inevitable occurs . 
alien 3 begins exactly where aliens left off . 
the prologue of alien 3 is a pure cinematic achievement by director david fincher , who had only directed music videos before his chance with this alien entry . 
without using a single line of dialogue ( unless you count computer warnings ) , fincher sets up the entire film . 
an impressive aspect of this is that fincher only shows a few seconds of film before cutting to a title card . 
we see lt . ripley and the little girl in their cryogenic compartments . . . 
 ( title ) . . . 
a shot of an alien egg . . . 
 ( title ) . . . 
alien legs stretch up into the air . . . 
 ( title ) . . . 
and so on and so on . 
during these first ten minutes , i learned everything i had to in order for alien 3 to proceed . 
it's quite a remarkable opening , and one which will remain in my mind for a long time . 
because of this face-hugger which has been hatched aboard the vessel from aliens , the hypersleep containers are sent into an escape pod , and sent down to the nearest planet : fiorina fury-161 , an ore refinery which has been turned into a maximum security prison . 
however , the face-hugger managed to attach itself to one of the cryo-tubes , and is sent down with the escape pod . 
unfortunately , during the landing , all but one of the survivors from aliens is killed . 
ripley is discovered by some of the inmates and taken back to the refinery . 
of course , you need a carrier for this face-hugger , and it attachs itself to the dog which came with the team of inmates . 
ripley is revived and asks to see the ship . 
after seeing a mysterious acid-eaten section , ripley asks to see the dead bodies , and then have them cremated . 
this cremation scene is one of the most powerful and impressive of all the alien films . 
featuring a monologue from dillon ( charles s . dutton ) , a prisoner who has found god , the movie cuts back and forth from the ceremony to the dog's demise . 
it's one of the most memorable moments , as the speech reflects exactly what is going on with the dog . 
and this is where alien 3 succeeds . 
fincher normally injects a lot of symbolism into his films , and i can easily see him becoming the next stanley kubrick or alfred hitchcock ( in fact , he is the mixture of both ) . 
fincher knows exactly what to film and how to film it , and i figure that he will be one of the few directors with complete control over his films . 
alien 3 is riddled with symbolic speeches and metaphorical images . 
by doing so , fincher creates some of the best scenes in the entire alien franchise . 
many people have criticized fincher's filming of the death scene of ripley ( i reveal nothing by saying this ) as looking too fake , but i enjoy and relish in the portrayal . 
showing ripley fall in slow motion is a nice touch , but by actually not showing her hit the vat of iron , a great deal of symbolism is derived . 
i feel that it would have spoiled the mood of the entire film if they had actually shown her splash into the molten iron . 
however , most people seem to want to witness ripley die ( which creates a paradox , as she is the character i didn't want to see die ) . 
why she is killed is one of the surprises of the film , and i don't plan on spoiling that in this review . 
>from every alien film comes several memorable moments which seem to stick with you forever . 
in alien , it was , of course , the moment the alien burst out of kane's stomach . 
in aliens , it was the showdown between alien and ripley in a machine . 
alien 3 has several , but most memorable is the terrific shot involving the alien and ripley . 
ripley is pushed up against a wall , and the alien stands inches away from her . 
why it doesn't kill her is a shocker , which later leads to a surprise ending . 
fincher apparently loves to use close-ups of actors' faces ( michael douglas and the clown face-off in the game in the same style ) , and by shaving off the actors' hair , the only thing we have to look at is their faces . 
many critics didn't like all the actors being bald , but it makes complete sense when taken in context of the plot . 
most of alien 3 works when you take it in context of the story , but when you try to compare it to its predecessors , fincher's turn seems a bit gloomy and dark , though that's not always a bad thing . 
the plot is pretty much a rehash of the first two films , with some major twists . 
again , we are setup with several different characters , and one by one , they are picked off . 
however , while the first two had tons of arsenal ( especially cameron's film ) , alien 3 takes place on a planet devoid of human life except for this run-down prison . 
as a result , no weapons are to be found . 
this creates a lot of tension , although i must admit that fincher could have added a lot more suspense . 
as an alien film , alien 3 is the worst of the series , but by itself , it is an extremely well-made motion picture , with a lot more merits than not . 
the unfortunate thing surrounding this second sequel is the one-dimensional characters . 
i never was really emotionally involved on screen because most of the characters are hardcore criminals whom i really could care less about . 
despite this , ripley was the central figure , and that's what is important . 
we care for her , even though she began to act just like one of the guys . 
again , the technical side of this film is remarkable , and better than the two previous versions . 
while cameron's version was a pumped up action film with massive artillary , fincher uses brilliant camera angles , terrific lighting , and moody sets . 
the cinematography , by alex thomson , is very well done , with a terrific chase sequence towards the end of the movie . 
the confusion of the ending draws the viewer in , as we are just as confused as the actors who are being chased around . 
the yellows , reds , and oranges of the lights create a dark mood , and by themselves create a lot of suspense . 
shadows dance on the walls , and yet those shadows could easily be the alien . 
the alien is different from its predecessors this time around , and the swiftness of this alien is quite intense . 
the camera likes to take up the perspective of the alien , racing after the characters . 
the sets are quite incredible , which are reminiscient of the nostromo from alien . 
the narrow corridors and labrynthine hallways is well constructed . 
the sets appear to be in the future , but not too far in the future . 
one of the set pieces even aids in the destruction of the alien ( nothing surprising there ) . 
sigourney weaver turns out yet another good performance , equaling her portrayal of ripley in aliens . 
she was snubbed at the oscars for this one , mainly because the film was a critical bomb . 
her reactions are far more realistic in this film , with her crying over the loss of the little child she risked her life saving in her previous encounter . 
it's quite touching really . 
charles s . dutton is very strong in his performance as one of the inmates , and i was on the brink of actually caring for him . 
charles dance turns in a nice low-key performance , and as a result , i cared for him immediately . 
lance henriksen makes a brief appearance as bishop ii , but he was more entertaining in aliens . 
the rest of the cast is pretty stale , though pete postlethwaite sticks out due to his recent turns in the usual suspects and the lost world . 
alien 3 is rated r for strong violence and language , and sex . 
although it has its flaws , alien 3 is highly entertaining with rich symbolism . 
this film reminds you how much fun it is to spot metaphorical images throughout a movie . 
while kubrick may have a moral message throughout his films , fincher relies on cinematic devices to bring his meanings out . 
it's a film like fincher's which reminds us that it is okay for a film to sacrifice quality for quantity ( the final scene ) . 
in fact , it tells us that we , as a society , have become too critical of things which may happen to look a little " fake . " 
whenever something looks fake on screen , we immediately point it out as a mistake . 
but perhaps it isn't a mistake . 
ultra low budget but extremely inventive horror film about a group of friends vacationing in a cabin who accidentally awaken an evil force in the woods via the necronomicon , the book of the dead . 
bruce campbell stars as ash , who eventually becomes the sole survivor and has to battle both the demons from the woods , and his friends who have become demons ( including his own girlfriend ) . 
the results shown on screen are amazing considering the film's tiny budget , constant location changes , and a filming schedule that was sporadic over two years . 
followed by two sequels : evil dead ii ( 1987 ) and army of darkness ( 1993 ) . 
the dvd release of this film from elite entertainment contains the film in it's original aspect ratio of 1 . 33 : 1 . 
the disc contains two versions of the film's audio : a stereo 2 . 0 track and a newly remastered dolby digital 5 . 1 . 
included are two separate running commentary tracks : the first features writer/director sam raimi and producer rob tapert and the second track features the film's star , bruce campbell . 
campbell's commentary is informative and extremely witty , as he has a story to tell for virtually every scene in the film . 
such informative tidbits include : the original title of the film was going to be book of the dead ( and in fact when the film premiered in 1981 that was it's title ) and when they were asked to change the title to the evil dead , everyone thought it was the worst title they had ever heard . 
also , there's a scene early on in the film where the group sits around and listens to a tape recorder which they've found that's explaining about the demonic forces in the woods . 
for that scene , it was written for the characters to be smoking marijuana , so being the wacky kids that they were at the time , they decided to actually smoke marijuana for the scene . 
almost all of that footage became unusable because many of the actor's had never smoked before , and as a result they became " confused " and were unable to perform the scene . 
i wish the entertainment factor was as high for the sam raimi/rob tapert audio track . 
the two people you'd think would be more enthusiastic in talking about this film instead barely have much to say at all . 
don't get me wrong here , when they do speak it's entertaining to hear , but there are many instances where both are silent for long periods of time . 
sometimes after one of those long silences rob will ask " have anything to say sam ? " 
to me , that's not a good sign . 
also , it seems like sam raimi doesn't remember much about the film and it's production . . . 
well , compared to rob and bruce anyway . 
also included on the disc is a photo gallery ( which includes pictures from the film's " gala " premiere ) and about twenty minutes of raw footage from the film . 
this raw footage really shows you how much a film can be improved upon using simple audio techniques . 
overall , the evil dead is a good low budget horror film , superior to many films in it's genre . 
and the collector's edition dvd release is well worth your time if you're either a fan of the film or just a fan of the filmmaking process . 
all special edition dvds should be this thorough and entertaining . 
elmore leonard has quickly become one of hollywood's favorite authors . 
out of four film adaptations in as many years , the witty and inventive out of sight gives get shorty a run for its money as the best leonard adaptation around . 
george clooney stars as jack foley , a nice bank robber . . . you 
know the type , he uses his charm and his wits rather than a gun . 
but even charming guys end up unlucky , and jack ends up in jail . 
but not for long . 
he plots an escape with the help of his best friend , and fellow robber , buddy bragg ( ving rhames ) , and their slow-witted pothead associate , glenn michaels ( steve zahn ) . 
but jack didn't count on u . s . marshal karen sisco ( jennifer lopez ) . 
appearing at the right place at the wrong time , karen gets involved in foley's escape attempt and the subsequent manhunt to bring him in . 
however , karen develops a rapport with jack foley , and finds that she begrudgingly likes the guy . 
but , can love prosper on opposite sides of the law ? 
or can karen straighten out jack before he goes too far in pursuit of just one last crime . 
clooney , who has had a string of solid , but never stellar , film roles , delivers his best performance to date . 
he blends into his role here perfectly as the risk taking jack foley , who's willing to gamble everything on the chance that karen sisco might be his true love . 
jennifer lopez does an excellent job as well . 
she actually has a trickier role than clooney , as a woman who has to balance her emotions with her sense of duty . 
she and clooney develop good chemistry together . 
the film boasts a superb ensemble . 
steve zahn gives a hilarious performance , and steals nearly every scene he's in . 
don cheadle is appropriately sinister as a violent ex-con who may or may not be teaming up with foley . 
albert brooks is enjoyable as a white collar criminal who talks too much for his own good . 
out of the cast , only dennis farina seems underused as karen's ex-lawman father . 
steven soderbergh gives the film sharp and stylistic direction . 
with an affectation for freeze frames , he delivers a unique take on the film's action and love scenes that places out of sight a notch above routine crime films . 
a recurring series of flashbacks makes the film seem more complex than it actually is . 
devoid of its bells and whistles , out of sight is actually a fairly straightforward crime story . 
however , there are only a few spots in the film that seem bare , and they pass quickly . 
with smart dialogue , good characters , and an excellent cast , out of sight easily smoothes over the rough spots in the plot and delivers on both the action and romantic fronts . 
bob the happy bastard's quickie review : 
the matrix 
what's worse than y2k ? 
how about a fully digital future where nothing is real ? 
that's what computer programmer neo ( keanu reeves ) slowly learns as he enters the dangerous world that is the matrix , a movie directed by the wachowski brothers ( the guys behind the hip thriller bound ) . 
before you groan at the presence of reeves in the lead role , hold on . 
there's actually a story with depth here . 
it seems that a group of hackers is out to stop the system that is the matrix , led by the bald but brilliant laurence fishburne and assisted by carrie ann moss , who looks quite cool in leather , i must say . 
neo ( reeves ) is pretty much a key player in this fight , although he really doesn't look it at first . 
could this amateur be " the one " as fisburne thinks he is ? 
credit the wachowskis for putting together a great story that allows suspense to build , something that few special effects-laden films seem to do these days . 
there's plenty of effects to go around , of course , but at least there's a backbone to build them on as well . 
reeves is surprisingly good in his role as neo , particularly in a fight scene with fishburne that comes across as goofy , yet great . 
i wish the villains weren't quite so " generic " ( leftover g-men from looking for a sweet sci-fi actioner with plenty of stop-motion swooping camera angles and , of course , a motherlode of a helicopter explosion . 
now the wachowskis are headed into horror films with their next project . 
bring it on . 
martin scorsese's kundun , which chronicles roughly the first twenty years of the life of the currently exiled dalai lama , has been criticized for its lack of narrative structure . 
personally , i don't think it needs one : it works perfectly well as a study of tibetan buddhist culture and how communist china . 
scorsese views the dalai lama the way many tibetans probably do , as a larger-than-life symbol of buddhist spirituality and political leadership : the only glimpses into his head come from several interesting yet oblique dream sequences , but his portrayal is appropriate for a film that concentrates on the political and spiritual rather than the personal . 
the set design and cinematography are outstanding , and while scorsese occasionally seems to get carried away with the spectacle , it helps to augment the cultural contrast when the dalai lama travels to china to meet chairman mao . 
political art sometimes succumbs to the temptation to start shouting slogans , kundun does not : it succeeds in delivering its message in an artistically interesting way and without being overly manipulative . 
synopsis : upper middle class , suburban family man lester ( kevin spacey ) realizes that he is just going through the motions : he is unable to feel passion ; he is soulless , cynical , and no longer able to feel the edge between success and failure . 
everyone else around him has similar symptoms . 
lester's unassertive daughter jane ( thora birch ) is too lethargic to change her world , yet all too ready to whine and complain . 
his wife carolyn ( annette bening ) is reduced to keeping up appearances and reciting commercialist slogans . 
and these are people with a big house and a decent standard of living . 
the only person who seems able to appreciate beauty and freedom and life is the person most deprived of it : a dope-dealing teen from across the street who is practically imprisoned by a domineering , bullying father . 
when lester embarks on a mad scramble to feel the edge again , the fact that he has quit his job to feel what it's like - - and his newfound interest in exercise to impress a teenage girl - - ruffle a lot of feathers in the family . 
will lester regain his ability to appreciate life ? 
opinion : people say it all the time : you never appreciate good health until it's gone . 
likewise , people raised in fabulously pampered prosperity can become unhappy and spiteful over the dumbest , most inconsequential problems , simply because they have no clue how good they have it . 
sometimes it takes a near fall - - accidentally or through deliberate fasting - - to move out of apathy and reclaim your ability to challenge the world . 
the deprivation/appreciation cycle is a major theme of american beauty . 
american beauty is a non-formula , intelligent and articulate movie that offers fantastic performances by everyone in the cast , especially kevin spacey , who is simply gosh darn amazing this movie . 
the thing i like about american beauty is that there is no sentimental music , no hospital scene nor any overly dramatic hokum . 
the movie entertains and offers brilliant performances just as is . 
if you are in the mood for a thoughtful , non-formula flick , i highly recommend american beauty . 
though it is a fine piece of filmmaking , there's something about elizabeth . . . that 
left me a bit cold , and i think it is something that bugs me quite often in films , particularly these days ; i just didn't care about the characters . 
to me , the first and foremost job of a filmmaker is to create characters ( be they imagined or historical as the case may be ) that the audience gives a hoot about . 
and though elizabeth works well on many levels , it falls short of excellence because of that very reason . 
elizabeth takes place in england in 1554 , as queen mary , half sister of elizabeth and a monarch on the side of catholicism is dying . 
before she dies , though , she cannot bear to sign a document which would condemn her half sister to death because of her heretical protestant beliefs . 
as a result , amidst much anger within the council , elizabeth becomes the queen of england . 
the film chronicles her rise to power as she fights for a unified church of england and tries to bring order to her personal and political life . 
much of the film deals with elizabeth's love for lord robert , a mysterious man who thrusts his lordship onto many a woman as he continues to proclaim his love for the queen . 
there is much ado about her lack of a husband , and political pressures from spain and france enter into the equation . 
the problem with the film lies with this as its centerpiece , as love interests are such a character driven element . 
i didn't much care about the characters ( perhaps aside for elizabeth who is played quite well by blanchett ) and so i didn't have much interest in who would join her in her nuptials . 
the cast is rounded out well with the marvelous rush who plays the queen's most loyal advisor , sir francis , and attenborough as a well-meaning but old-fashioned lead council . 
why then , you must be asking , do i recommend elizabeth ? 
simply because it is the result of a perfect pairing of director and cinematographer . 
kapur and his cinematographer remi adefarasin ( neither of whom i have heard ) create a beautifully realized piece of filmmkaing from the technical side . 
the light streams through each frame as in any painting from the period and beautifully captures the realistic light sources that would have been found in churches , cellars and castles in 16th century europe . 
each frame is rich with color contrasted with blackness or blown-out white light from windows . 
the costumes by alexandra byrne deserve a mention as they are such an inportant aspect of each shot . 
indeed , elizabeth is one of the most visually beautiful films of the decade , ranking with kundun and braveheart . 
watch also for the incredibly " godfather-esque " mass murder scene . 
it made me think in retrospect of the similarities between the two films . 
carolco pictures and dutch director paul verhoeven ( robocop ) came together to create the 1990 mega hit that is total recall . 
the film is a masterpiece of sets , action , and special effects . 
action and science fiction just don't get any better than this ! 
the story involves a construction worker named douglas quaid ( arnold schwarzenegger ) who lives on earth with his beautiful wife lori ( sharon stone ) . 
quaid is obsessed with mars and decides to go with the second best choice ; a brain implant ( fake memory ) of a two week vacation on mars . 
while being implanted a memory cap is triggered and the doctors realize that quaid's memory has previously been erased . 
now the people who did it are after him . 
quaid must find out who he really is and why these people want him dead . 
the plot unfolds at a rapid pace explaining itself through great action , special effects , and twist after mind-boggling twist . 
it grabs you and never lets go ! 
this film is a winner from beginning to end . 
the plot is superb ; combining the best elements of science fiction and psychological mystery to create a rip-roaring saga . 
schwarzenegger gives his best performance ever , and the supporting cast is good too . 
the action and stunts are terrific . 
the sets are huge and elaborate with a lot of attention payed to detail . 
the music and sound effects are perfect for the film and really add a certain level of impact to the action . 
the make-up effects by rob bottin ( the howling , the thing , and robocop ) are top notch , not to mention extremely outlandish . 
the visual effects by dream quest ( the abyss ) and industrial light and magic ( star wars trilogy , jurassic park , and terminator 2 ) are phenomenal ! 
the visuals had such a state of the art " slickness " that they won an oscar . 
of course the film isn't always realistic ; it's more fiction than science . 
for example , it is true that a body won't explode in the vacuum of space but in total recall they do . 
who cares ? 
it's a movie . 
movies are supposed to entertain . 
and in my opinion this film achieves an entertainment level in film that is so terrific , it may be impossible to beat . 
with the abundance of trite , recycled movies in the late '90s , there is a tremendous demand by movie lovers ( never mind movie critics ) for movies that present the wide film audience with something truly original : perhaps audaciously , perhaps purely thematically . 
for the former , you need look no further than director tom tykwer's incredible german thriller run lola run , a movie that may make some viewers need a cooling off period afterwards . 
lola , a contemporary goth-girl with blazing red hair receives a desperate phone call from her boyfriend manni one day . 
it seems that because she was late delivering something he lost a bag containing a hundred thousand marks , and if he doesn't deliver a hundred thousand marks within the next twenty minutes , he will be killed . 
this gives lola twenty minutes to come up with 100 , 000 marks , or her boyfriend dies . 
so she runs -- not just jogs , sprints -- in hopes that somehow , someway , she'll be able to obtain the money and save a life . 
>from there , as critic steve rhodes described it , run lola run plays a bit like " sliding doors on steroids . 
with a non-stop techno soundtrack , wierd camerawork , all kinds of insane zooms and a truly breakneck pace , anyone that is bored with run lola run has to be smoking something . 
indeed , the movie is often outrageously exciting , as well as bitterly ironic and subtly serious . 
very much like titanic , run lola run is an achievement with filmmaking much more than it is an achievement in film . 
the way the movie is made , for pure visual style , tykwer's movie is breathtaking ( literally , sometimes ) . 
thematically it does leave something to be desired ; it toys around with some intriguing ideas but does occasionally seem as if there is little substance behind all of the flash . 
while you are watching , this will not matter . 
running a breezy 81 minutes , this is one movie i wished was longer because it was so damn good while it lasted . 
it is the equivalent of a roller-coaster in the amount of thrills and fun that it offers . 
 ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 
i was anxious to see this for a long time . 
a friend of mine recommended this to me because he has a crush on neve campbell , and he wanted to prove that she's as hot as he thinks he is . 
he proved it for me all right , but the reasons i enjoy this film go way beyond that . 
scream treads on familar ground , horror movie with , as star neve campbell puts it , " some stupid killer stalking some big breasted girl who can't act who's always running up the stairs when she should be running out the front door . " 
it's very familar , your typical horror film . 
so why , you may ask after watching it , does it seem so new and original ? 
because it treats itself as if it hasn't been done before , and thus the viewer is disilusioned into believing that it is not old , familar tired stuff . 
this raises another question : how does it do this ? 
simple : the characters . 
they're not your typical stupid horror film victims who don't know what the hell to do when being chased by a guy in a ski mask and a machette . 
they are horror fans , they know how stuff happens in a horror movie , they know what to do and what not to do , and that makes it scary , and even funny at certain times . 
you can tell this just by watching the opening scene where casey becker ( drew barrymore ) is making popcorn , getting ready to watch a video , and some guy who sounds like a killer calls her up to play a game with her that involves horror movie triva that , if she gets it wrong , will get her and her boyfriend killed . 
she knows what to answer when he asks her horror film questions , she just can't answer his final question , " what door am i at ? " 
and that gets her killed . 
that scene works because in a normal horror film , half the things that happen in that scene would never happen . 
the plot is typical horror stuff : sidney prescott ( an impressive neve campbell ) , an attractive young high school student who's mother was killed a year ago tommorrow , is being stalked by a killer who's previously murdered one of her classmates ( casey , naturally ) , and everybody in this small , california town is a suspect , including sidney's boyfriend , billy loomis . 
but as i said before , these people know how horror movies work , and that's what makes it so appealing . 
that and the references to horror movies , like when casey says , " the first ( nightmare on elm street ) was scary , but the rest sucked . " 
which is obviously director wes craven ( who does a good job of poking fun of the genre that made him a legend ) patting himself on the back as he directed the first nightmare movie and none of the others , and when tatum , sidney's friend , mentions the director , wes carpenter , which is obviously an homage by writer kevin williamson to not only craven , but also director john carpenter . 
the cast is well chosen , neve campbell pulls off a good heroine ( and unlike most horror film heroines , she * can * act ) , drew barrymore does a good janet leigh impression for what little time she has in the film , and david arquette is impressive . 
also good ( and funny ) in his role is henry winkler ( " the fonz " ) as the school principal . 
i took half a point off for the unnecessary ( albeit limited ) appearance by friends' courteney cox as reporter , gail edwards , sidney's rival because she covered her mother's disappearance . 
i hate that show , i hate those actors . 
they're untalented , overexposed , and overpaid , imho , and i would think wes craven is smart enough to know those actors are overexposed enough , but i suppose he isn't . 
to paraphrase a song title from an earlier disney movie , mulan is a whole new world . 
the mouse factory's latest feature is a treasure , featuring magnificent animation , a strong story and finely drawn characters . 
mulan is the story of a fiesty , head-strong young woman who , unlike other disney heroines , isn't seeking her prince charming , 
mulan's motivations are simple ; to save her father , serve her country and find a place for herself in a world in which females have no say . 
the story of mulan takes place in ancient china at a time when the huns have invaded the nation . 
the emperor has called for a conscription , one man from each family to join the army and defend the nation . 
mulan's crippled father is called , but mulan sneaks off , steals his armor and takes his place . 
mulan is a saga of courage and self-discovery . 
yet , despite the grim backdrop of war , it is a lively tale of self-reliance and brain-over-brawn that even the smallest child can appreciate and enjoy . 
the movie utilizes a strong corps of asian-american talent as the voices for the main characters , including the wonderful ming-na wen ( the joy luck club ) as mulan , b . d . 
wong as shang , mulan's commanding officer and later love interest , pat morita as the emperor and the veteran soon-tek oh as mulan's proud , but loving father . 
also adding to the proceedings is eddie murphy as mushu the dragon , sent by mulan's ancestors to watch over and help the young woman . 
his fast , wise-cracking , hip-talking mushu may seem out of place , but it's a crowd pleasing performance , especially for the youngsters . 
the movie features only a couple of songs , fewer than most previous disney animated flicks , but mulan's are winners . 
the music by matthew wilder and lyrics by david zippel fit nicely into the plot . 
the overall score by jerry goldsmith also is a plus . 
mulan is a treat , more powerful than hercules , with more heart than the hunchback of notre dame . 
at about 85 minutes , mulan moves rapidly , and will hold the attention of youngsters from beginning to the end . 
mulan will set a new standard by which future animated efforts by disney and other studios will have to work hard to attain . 
also , it is hoped that the success of mulan , and there is no doubt that it will prove to be a popular vehicle , will spur an interest for more movies with oriential or asian-american themes so as to provide more substantial roles for the talented performers who gave their voices for this production . 
it would be nice to see them on screen as well as hear them . 
committed to lifelong learning through effective communication 
as a revolutionary war hero in the patriot , mel gibson provides another macho man performance for hollywood audiences . 
you know the type : his shirt is always shredded , his face always scarred , he has a soft spot for his loved ones and a " to kill " list for his enemies . 
oscar-hungry director/executive producer roland emmerich did not intend to , but he made the stereotypical action hero for the 18th century . 
as gibson delivers lines like , " before this war is over , i am going to kill you , " schwarzenegger in commando or stallone in cobra immediately come to mind . 
oddly enough , the patriot is as much an epic three-hour-tear-fest like gladiator , as it is a ninety-minute guilty pleasure . 
at times absorbing , at others enjoyably insipid , this is good , bloody summer fun . 
i probably would have despised this film had it not been released over the july 4th weekend . 
some of the images are so zealously americanized ( the flag is used as a lifesaving weapon for example ) , that independence day seems the only appropriate time of year to wholeheartedly accept it . 
like emmerich's id4 , this is obvious propaganda where the americans are the hapless underdogs motivated by freedom for all . 
sure it's predictable and melodramatic , but for a moment after leaving the theater , i was dumbfounded with patriotism . 
and isn't that the point of the patriot ? 
gibson plays benjamin martin , the lionized french and indian war veteran , who , at the beginning of the film , is emotionally suffering after his loving wife passed away . 
he is left to father seven children at his south carolina estate along with black servants ( not slaves ! ) . 
as the revolutionary war rumbles miles away , martin swears to keep his family close and away from the battlefields . 
but when the oldest son enlists anyway and another is murdered by a wicked redcoat colonel ( jason isaacs ) , martin quickly decides to save the day ( or save the fate of america as presented by emmerich ) . 
forming a band of aggressive farmers and using guerilla tactics considered unfair in the art of war , martin becomes the number one target of the british army . 
the best parts of the patriot are the scenes in which martin and his rugged militia men outsmart the british armies left and right . 
every time the farmers attacked the unsuspecting enemy , to see the disbelief on british general cornwallis' ( tom wilkinson ) face was priceless entertainment . 
and as the tension gradually formulates with the running time , a final battle is inevitable . 
as for the numerous battle scenes , they are expertly done . 
clearer and more realistic than those of gladiator , the gruesome images are what give this film an r rating . 
you really get a sense of how warfare was performed during that time period . 
everything is performed in an orderly ( but still quite gory ) fashion - one side shoots , then the other side , then the remaining soldiers charge . 
it's organized , strategic and , according to martin , ineffective . 
there is a very interesting contrast between the traditional battle style and martin's take-no-prisoners method . 
what drives martin to these supposedly unfair actions , are the originally brutal tactics of colonel tavington . 
played wonderfully by jason isaacs , tavington is the type who loves to glare down from his horse at civilians , who nervously avoid eye contact . 
this character is viciously evil ; he kills women and children and then laughs about it on the way home ; even his eyes are evil . 
his portrayal has sparked some controversy in britain , some claim that he falsely represents his countrymen as " cowardly " and " sadistic . " 
i disagree with this accusation . 
tavington does not represent his country ; his unnecessary executions shock his own colleagues and even anger his general . 
besides tavington , the redcoats remain stick figures that are neither glorified nor patronized . 
and stick figures make the easiest enemies in these kinds of movies - why give the audience a reason to love the bad guys ? 
heck , why not spend the entire film glossing up the good guys ? 
the patriot is three hours of fictional fireworks . 
with an action hero seeking revenge and a comic book villain ready to take him down , it's a lethal weapon for the colonial times . 
god bless america ! 
and god bless the patriot ! 
 " if there's a beast in men , it meets its match in women , too . " 
starring sarah patterson , angela lansbury , tusse silberg , david warner directed by neil jordan written by jordan and angela carter , from a story by carter cinematography by bryan loftus 
in recent years , there has been a trend in the field of fantasy : writers have been revisiting the fertile world of myth and fairy tale and reclaiming that world , investing it with new life and energy . 
in modern times , fairy tales have become disneyfied and debased ; they have become trite adventures involving leering witches , friendly dwarves , and cuddly talking animals . 
but in their original forms , fairy tales have a dark , wicked edge . 
crows tear out the eyes of cinderella's sisters , a gorier fate then they receive in the animated version . 
hansel and gretel relish cooking the witch in her own oven . 
writers have become fascinated by the bloodier , morally ambivalent aspects of fairy tales , and are now modernizing the old stories while simultaneously going back to their roots . 
before this trend was in vogue , angela carter--whose stories always have a dark , wicked , subversive edge--had been reinventing fairy tales for years . 
in the company of wolves , she and neil jordan retell the story of red riding hood , enlivening it with werewolves , rolls royces , and a visit from satan . 
the story is structured as a dream , occurring in the mind of rosaleen ( sarah patterson ) , an adolescent girl about whose 'real' life we learn very little . 
within the dream , there are a number of inset stories , most told by dream-rosaleen's grandmother ( angela lansbury ) , and these tales gloss the central story in intriguing , suggestive ways . 
the result is a surprisingly successful example of a sinister , contemporary fairy tale . 
i say " surprisingly " because there are so many ways this film could have gone wrong . 
and there are ways in which it does . 
the performances are mediocre , except for lansbury's--she finds the right note for the prim , apple-cheeked granny , the wise and stern teller of cautionary tales . 
the soundtrack , synth-heavy , reminded me of bad 80s horror movies , as did the special effects in the shapechanging scenes . 
probably state-of-the-art at the time , they are now laughable . 
but jordan succeeds at what i consider the trickiest aspect of the film : he transcends the poor acting/music/effects and conveys a sense of the fantastic , of otherness . 
one of the problems in adapting full-blown fantasies is that fantasy is often best left to the imagination of the reader , rather than being subjected to the 'realism' of the screen . 
part of me would love to see an adaptation of 'the lord of the rings , ' but , on the other hand , i know that any filmmaker's recreation of ents , hobbits , and balrogs is inevitably going to be really lame compared to what i picture in my mind . 
this makes jordan's accomplishment here seem mighty impressive to me : he imbues the company of wolves with a genuine sense of magic and mystery . 
the somewhat ruritanian dreamworld becomes a kind of ur-reality . 
the sunshine is exceptionally warm and abundant . 
the nights are quiet and misty and eerie and ghostly . 
the peasant village is rustic and cozy , the woods old and hoary . 
this archetypal realm is the setting for a smart , subtle , literate script , a script which is as good as you'd expect from jordan ( himself an accomplished fiction writer ) and carter . 
for carter , the cauldron of story is a witches' brew , bubbling over with primal ingredients : mist-shrouded forests , ancient graveyards , virginal girls and wise women , wolves with glowing eyes . 
she adeptly blends them all together . 
there is a symbolic richness to the film ; everything is permeated with a sense of significance . 
the point of it all , i think , is to represent a girl's rites-of-passage on an unconscious , primordial level . 
a night-journey through the forest , from the village to the grandmother's home , is the crux of the company of wolves . 
 " don't stray from the path , " rosaleen is told , again and again , and the path is both literal and figurative : the path through the forest and the path of life . 
staying on the path is the conventional approach suggested by rosaleen's elders . 
carter and jordan , never conventional , explore what goes on when you leave the path . 
those who stray will supposedly meet with a dark fate . 
this fate is literalized in the dream as werewolves , but the werewolves connote many things : death , sex , knowledge . 
if straying from the path leads to death , then it's not a good idea--but if that's what you have to risk to get sex and knowledge ( and therefore power ) , then maybe it's worth the risk . 
when you leave the path , the world becomes a dangerous , ambiguous place , but it's full of potential . 
and it's certainly more interesting than the disney version . 
contrary to the title , " the boxer " is not another rocky story only this time spliced with some cold hard politics . 
it's actually three movies in one : a political film , a boxing film , and a love story . 
all of these work in their own respects and have some pretty decent balancing betwixt the three elements of the story , but somehow it seems kind of cliched and unoriginal . 
we've seen it all before , and we're just not blown away with it like we should be . 
oh well . 
it's still an excellent irish story . 
 " the boxer " of the title is danny flynn ( jim sheridan staple daniel day-lewis ) , an ex-ira member who gets out of a belfast prison after 14 years , and finds out that his troubles are far from over . 
first off , the ira is having a small civil war between its leader joe hamill ( brian cox ) , and one of its sub-leaders , harry ( gerard mcsorley ) , both having opposing views on getting many of their members out of jail . 
while this is going on , danny and his old drunkard buddie , ike ( ken stott , who played the chief inspector in danny boyle's " shallow grave " ) , re-open an old gym which allows the two opposing religios sects , protestant and catholics , to work together . 
danny not only begins teaching kids how to box , but has stayed in great shape whilst in prison , and is ready to start boxing real people again . 
and danny runs into his ex-love , maggie ( " breaking the waves " 's emily watson ) , who hasn't seen him since he went in . 
they don't easily start up their romance again because she's the wife of a prisoner whom she married during danny's tenure in prison , and also has a son , liam ( ciaran fitzgerald ) , from him , whom liam is hoping will get out soon . 
but the two are slowly re-drawn to eachother again , and this begins to complicate things . 
the political story is nothing really special but works in itself . 
we've seen it many a time before , but it's at least interesting , sometimes emotional , and even riveting at times . 
there's a big riot towards the middle of the film which is frightening in its brutality and honesty . 
the boxing story is very minor to the story , but does represent people coming together to fight eachother fairly , and even with good sportsmanship . 
there are only a few boxing scenes , but they're never like " raging bull " /let's-strip-down-the-sport-to-its-bones brilliant . 
they're more realistic , and instead of bone crunching , we hear the sound of the gloves hitting eachother , which is slightly unerving at times . 
and i didn't know daniel day-lewis was in such good shape . 
but the backbone of the story is the love one . 
because these characters are given such horrible circumstances , and since the two leads have such great chemistry together , we really feel for their plight . 
as the film goes on , and circumstances get worse and worse , the characters have to make real human decisions , and we can sympathize with them as humans not characters . 
this is how you write a love story - take note , hollywood . 
these elements are pretty much equally balanced , with each of the parts of the stories working hand-in-hand with eachother . 
i loved how each of the different parts of the plot mattered , and sometimes spilled over into the next . 
it made sure that we didn't just care for one of them . 
i'm not saying they're all equally great , because the love story really carries the film , but at least they all work out respectively . 
the acting is amazing , with day-lewis and watson giving excellent performances and showing great chemistry . 
i'm not sure if they're oscar-nominee bound , but they're very good . 
in the supporting roles , billy cox is greatly sympathetic as the ira leader losing control of his daughter and his workers . 
but the film is stolen acting wise by ken stott as ike , who is just a great scene stealer . 
the direction and co-writing by jim sheridan ( with the other co-writing credit going to terry george ) is excellent , rounding out the characters well , but not pacing everything greatly . 
i noticed that the first half was very leisurely ( yet fascinating ) , but the second half whirls by at a quick pace , and ends much too quickly . 
more time could have been spent thinking up the ending , since it does seem quite sloppy . 
though " the boxer " is a good film , it never achieves the greatness that it should . 
sure , it's a masterpiece compared to most of the hollywood drivel we usually get , but on it's own , it just could have been better . 
but it still works out , gives us a great love story combined with a political and boxing drama , and features great acting . 
even if it could have been better , this'll do . 
you don't want to be like mike . 
mike has been doing badly . 
embarrassingly bad . 
he broke up a six-year relationship six months ago to move from n . y . to l . a . and he's still not over her . 
as a result , his jokes fall flat when he tries to impress , and he's a comedian . 
well , an unemployed comedian , one of hollywood's little fish , and it has gotten so bad he's asked for an application at starbuck's . 
actually , the starbuck's thing gets even worse . 
and worse . 
you won't fail to like mike , however , played endearingly by jon favreau . 
swingers revolves around mike's half-hearted and awkward efforts to get back in the social swing of things . 
to this end he is enthusiastically assisted by his equally underachieving twentysomething actor friends , such as trent ( vince vaughn with the film's most animated performance ) , who has the gift of gab bordering on the disturbing side of motivational speaking , gun-toting sue ( patrick van horn ) , and rob ( ron livingston ) , who once played hamlet but now longs to work as goofy in disneyland , but doesn't succeed because of his lack of " theme park experience . " 
together they talk about women - how to make eye contact , which involves avoiding it , and when to call so as never to appear desperate , two days being " industry standard . " 
after talking the talk , they walk the walk , strutting like the cool swingers they aspire to be , always to laughable effect . 
to get mike out of his funk , his friends persistently convince him to get outside , whether it be to a quickie night trip to a seedy vegas casino or a cutthroat hollywood party with the beautiful people or a 50s swing lounge . 
everywhere they encourage mike to look for a replacement " honey " and then keep vigil over his progress , or lack of it . 
like dotty doting parents , mike never leaves their company without being the recipient of their confidence cheerleading ( " you're money , mike , and the honeys know it . " ) or equipped with their eccentric dating philosophies , such as an analogy of flirting with the bear and the bunny . 
with the unwavering support of friends like these , maybe mike's not doing too badly after all . 
favreau also doubled as the film's screenwriter , and he proves he has the gift for creating engaging characters and witty banter that goes beyond today's bon mot . 
there is a reassuring honesty to the friendships , even when it hits its low points and the friends commiserate . 
when mike gets the gumption to look for love , you will join his cheerleading section as well . 
swingers is light , unassuming fare , sweet candy you will want to bust your gut with - laughing - again and again . 
america has finally gotten what it's needed for years : a compassionate sincere president with impressive ethics and charisma . 
regretfully it's only a movie . 
president james marshall ( harrison ford ) is fed up with terrorist activities . 
teaming up with the russian government , he orders a strike force capture of alexander radek , a reactionary general ready to re-unite the soviet union under his fascist reign . 
during a celebration dinner , marshall announces to the world that he will send troops to fight oppression wherever it exists . 
 " it's your turn to be afraid , " he declares . 
returning home on air force one , he gets the chance to demonstrate his words personally . 
ultra-nationalist militants loyal to radek and lead by ivan korshunov ( gary oldman ) hijack the plane threatening to kill a hostage every half hour until the general is released . 
marshall has a chance to escape in a jettisoned capsule ( which clinton says doesn't exist in real life ) but refuses , preferring to stay and fight . 
director wolfgang peterson ( " das boot " , " in the line of fire " , " outbreak " takes the over-used " die hard " theme and gives us something new in a film that combines brilliant acting with hold-your-breath intensity . 
if you can take your eyes off the screen , steal a look at the audience . 
everyone is totally engrossed . 
the two actors do what they do best and they are probably the best there are at it . 
oldman has become typecast as a psychotic sadist and no wonder -- he does it so well . 
when he engages the teenage first daughter in sensitive conversation about his family and the next minute threatens to blow a hole in her forehead , you know that he's over the edge in the manner that people with a cause can become . 
you are convinced that young alice could end up terminated at any time . 
when korshonov executes passengers , there is a frightening reality to it . 
the guns in this film are deadly weapons , not cartoons . 
harrison ford has done one role for several years . 
his mastery of the man in the suit propelled into desperate action is in top form here . 
marshall is a medal of honor recipient who now has a desk job . 
realistically , he's a man afraid , but not afraid to act . 
ford is one of the few actors that could make us believe that the president of the united states could be an action hero . 
indiana jones in the oval office . 
he and oldman's archetypes match up perfectly . 
the other roles also go to accomplished actors . 
glenn close as the determined but unsure vice-president is the picture of an executive forced into a position that she's not quite ready for . 
dean stockwell as defense secretary eager for the authority ( " i'm in charge here ! " ) 
is her political nemesis and turns in a good alexander haig performance . 
of course the politics are all wrong . 
a cowboy president ( even down to his name ) with big guns shoots his way through problems . 
much like the american collective memory of jfk's camelot , the image is wondrous if you don't look too deep . 
the pulls on the patriotic heartstrings would be too much in any other film , but they work here . 
no matter what political spin you put on the story , the movie is an outstanding one . 
i left the theater feeling that there is hope for the country's future : not a common belief nowadays . 
now if we only can get ford to run for president . 
just because one actor didn't work out as chief executive doesn't mean that a different one couldn't . 
 ( michael redman has lost count of how many years he's been writing this column -- 21 years . . . 22 years -- while watching the sunflowers outside his window swaying in the cool breezes . ) 
susan granger's review of " songcatcher " in the midst of this summer's fare of dinos revisited and romantic fiascoes , there are a few thoughtful movies - and this appalachian period drama is one . 
oscar nominee janet mcteer ( " tumbleweeds " ) stars as dr . lily penleric , an accomplished musicologist who , back in that pre-feminist era , was refused a full professorship at her university . 
determined to prove her worth , she ventures deep into the rugged mountains of north carolina , where her younger sister elna ( jane adams ) runs a school . 
there in bear creek , she discovers a treasure-trove of traditional scots-irish and english folk ballads , given a unique interpretation by the insular locals . 
excited , she sends for recording equipment and persuades vinie butler ( pat carroll ) and other self-sustaining mountain folk to share their musical heritage on her edison phonograph cylinders . 
their music , as she puts it , is " as much a part of life here as the air you breathe . " 
that's the main thrust of writer-director maggie greenwald's occasionally uneven culture-clash story , which is loosely based on olive dame campbell's foray through the blue ridge mountains in 1908 , but there's also some melodramatic romantic spice . 
ornery , bearded , banjo-picking aidan quinn falls for the statuesque , passionate " songcatcher , " while elna secretly engages in a lesbian relationship with a colleague ( e . 
katherine kerr ) . 
i'm ready to buy the soulful soundtrack with vocalists like emmylou harris , iris dement , taj mahal and young opera star emmy rossum who plays a pivotal role as mcteer's wide-eyed prot ? g ? . 
rated pg-13 , there's an intense scene of primitive childbirth . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " songcatcher " is an intelligent , extraordinary 8 , transported by the transcendent power of song . 
elizabeth is a potent historical drama set in england in the mid-1500s . 
it is a time when stately royal ceremonies are as commonplace as public burnings . 
internally , the catholics wage war against the protestants . 
meanwhile , spain , scotland and france strategize their next moves in the struggle for power . 
little does england know that a young woman named elizabeth ( cate blanchett ) will be their greatest hope for survival . 
the film charts elizabeth's tumultuous struggle to gain true power over her kingdom . 
as a protestant , she is the last person any of the catholic royalty would want to be queen . 
but her half-sister queen mary ( kathy burke ) , deathly ill and unable to conceive a child , pleas with elizabeth to take over the throne . 
mary gives her her blessing on only one condition : that elizabeth renounce her faith and uphold the teachings of catholicism across the land . 
once declared queen , elizabeth immediately finds herself under assault , both by her own subjects ( including the duke of norfolk , played with steely-eyed grace by christopher eccleston ) and by forces abroad . 
slowly but surely , the neophyte ruler takes england by its reigns and forges a new path for her kingdom . 
elizabeth is surrounded by a keenly drawn cadre of subjects and advisers . 
her closest ally is the mysterious sir francis walsingham ( geoffrey rush , in a perfectly subtle performance ) . 
also on her side is sir william cecil ( sir richard attenborough ) , her well-meaning but misguided chief adviser . 
with few people she can trust , elizabeth must prove her self-worth any way she can , even if it means being the iron-fisted ruler she secretly despises . 
blanchett deserves an oscar for her performance as elizabeth . 
she portrays the young queen with just the right balance of gawky self-consciousness and shrewd charisma . 
though not a classical beauty , blanchett is able to entrance the viewer with just a coy smile or an impish smirk . 
she is at home with her character's playful tendencies , particularly in one scene where elizabeth dances unabashedly with childhood friend and lover lord robert dudley ( joseph fiennes ) . 
whether fending off unctuous suitors or " playing " the houses in court , blanchett's elizabeth radiates a confidence which impossible to dislike . 
almost as interesting as the character of elizabeth are shekhar kapur's visual delights . 
he and cinematographer remi adefarasin have crafted a film with a rich color palette that is a feast for the eyes . 
rolling green hills , extravagant ceremonial galas , dark and foreboding corridors -- all are depicted with a real sense of artistic appreciation . 
the castles and cathedrals of europe have rarely been doted on so lovingly as they are here . 
though writer michael hirst's script gets a little murky at times , and his injections of humor get a little overplayed , elizabeth pulses with the right amount of dramatic and cinematic verve to make it just deserving of a theatrical viewing . 
as a whole , the story survives because elizabeth's struggle is one which deserves attention . 
by the time she makes her shocking ( but very sensible ) final declaration , we're ready to bow to elizabeth as our own queen . 
making his directorial debut , actor jon favreau brings along his swingers co-star , vince vaughn , for this tale of two mugs on a career trajectory to nowheresville . 
favreau , who also wrote the script , is bobby , vaughn is ricky . 
by day they are construction workers . 
they also are wanna-be contenders , but neither has had much success . 
their last bout pitted them against each other and was a draw , leaving bobby's record at 5-5-1 . 
these two l . a . not-so-wise guys also work for max ( peter falk ) , a mid-level mobster , who is patient and understanding with bobby , but who hates ricky's guts . 
max has an easy job for bobby ; fly to new york and make a simple delivery to a gangster named ruiz ( a smooth and silky sean combs ) . 
bobby , because of his lifelong friendship with ricky , pleads with max to give his pal another chance and let him tag along to the big apple . 
against his better judgment , max agrees . 
of course ricky , a motormouth who inserts both feet everytime he speaks , nearly screws up everything . 
while bobby tries to stay calm and professional , ricky begins swaggering and throwing money around as if he was john gotti or tony soprano . 
the constrast in styles and the chemistry between favreau and vaughn is what makes made so enjoyable to watch . 
favreau with his hound-dog face and slow-burn personality could be a modern-day oliver hardy , only much wiser . 
vaughn is like someone vaccinated with a phonograph needle , he just keeps yakking and yakking , unaware of the havoc he creates . 
yet despite bobby's constant aggravation and agitation with his partner , a bond of affection and loyalty binds them . 
the contrast between the two friends is interesting to watch . 
bobby is button-downed , tightly-wound , always waiting for the next shoe -courtesy of ricky - to drop . 
ricky is mostly oblivious to the problems he creates and is genuinely surprised when he comes under attack for his faux paus . 
in new york , the two lackeys are like fish out of water , stumbling from one situation to another , trying to keep alive . 
combs is elegant , cool and low-key menacing as the gangsta they are sent to meet . 
falk is amusing in his small role , while famke janssen nearly breaks your heart as bobby's lowlife girlfriend . 
more than anything , made is a movie with heart . 
it is loud , obnoxious and very talkative . 
but the cameraderie between bobby and ricky holds the key to its interest . 
favreau does a commendable job in his directorial debut . 
he is a player to be watched as he can only improve with experience . 
set in the wild west , this carry on centres around the arrival of the rumpo kid ( sidney james ) and his cronies in stodge city . 
his dodgy dealings and summary shootings aggravate judge burke ( kenneth williams ) so much that he asks sheriff albert earp ( jon pertwee ) to drive rumpo out of town . 
instead , the rumpo kid shoots the sheriff dead . 
therefore , judge burke sends for a law marshall to come in and clean up the city . 
due to a misunderstanding , an english sanitary engineer called marshall p . knutt ( jim dale ) is assigned , without knowing it , as the law marshall for stodge city . 
he arrives at the same time as annie oakley ( angela douglas ) who is seeking revenge for her father , the sheriff's murder . 
when marshall arrives at stodge city , he soon becomes aware of the misunderstanding and due to his rather limited intellect , he is manipulated by the rumpo kid and always ends up getting things wrong . 
in the end , there is a head-to-head between rumpo and marshall . 
with the rumpo's past experience , it would seem that marshall is out of his depth , but using his sanitary skills and learning the ways of the west from annie oakley , he at least stands some chance ! 
sid james , with an american accent , is perfect as the rumpo kid , a part which suits him down to the ground . 
jim dale provides one of his best carry on performances as the stupid sanitary engineer , and angela douglas is very effective in her role as the revengeful daughter . 
other regulars that appear in this movie include charles hawtrey and bernard bresslaw ( in his debut ) as big heap and little heap respectively . 
big heap is the local indian leader and the crazy casting of hawtrey for this part is very amusing , as is his performance : - he steals every scene he is in even though he does not enter the film until thirty minutes past . 
joan sims provides useful and amusing support as belle , the local bar owner who takes a fancy to the rumpo kid . 
however , the part of doc played by peter butterworth and sheriff albert earp played by jon pertwee are not really necessary , and pertwee's performance is rather poor . 
kenneth williams uses a new voice but struggles with the weak part of the 'judge' . 
even so , this carry on was sid james and kenneth williams' favourite . 
a very different carry on film , in that it is played more seriously by the actors and possesses more realism than any other carry on . 
the death count is the highest of any carry on film . 
sets , costumes and action sequences are all very commendable . 
the songs that are included in the movie ( the title song and annie's song ) are very impressive . 
a strange but therefore very interesting carry on film . 
not the best of its kind but it is certainly the most distinctive film of the series . 
for example , in happy gilmore , sandler plays a rookie golfer trying to beat a self-confident jerk of a pro . 
if the star were any other comic , that would be enough motivation to drive the movie , but with sandler , the rookie also wants to win the prize money to help his grandma keep her house . 
that extra motive doesn't make happy gilmore a funnier movie . 
it doesn't really add any genuine emotional depth , either . 
in fact , the motive is almost totally irrelevant to the movie . 
but sandler's philosophy seems to be , if it's a token gesture , why not make it a nice gesture ? 
that is endlessly refreshing . 
in the wedding singer , sandler is right on track . 
the fact that he's a wedding singer is only superficially relevant to the story . 
what kind of a wedding singer he is is even less important . 
david spade could have filled the role with cynicism and sarcasm . 
he could make fun of the fat , ugly , or embarrassing people he meets at weddings , and the story would be intact . 
but sandler instead brings a mature goodness to the character . 
he seems to really enjoy the people at weddings and treats them as though they were his own family . 
robbie hart ( sandler ) doesn't just sing at weddings ; he also gets the loners to join in and have fun , and he smooths it over when someone does something embarrassing . 
he is exactly the man you would want at your wedding . 
the day comes when robbie has his own wedding , and he is stood up by his heavy-metal bride ( the movie is set in 1985 ) . 
robbie takes it hard . 
he doesn't sleep , he doesn't eat , and he gets punched out at work when he sings " love stinks " at a wedding . 
julia ( drew barrymore ) , who waitresses all the weddings in town , gives him a shoulder to cry on and an ear to talk to . 
eventually , robbie starts rebounding toward julia . 
he really likes her , but she's engaged . 
her fianc ? is a self-confident jerk ( do i see a trend - nope , just a formula ) who doesn't deserve her , but robbie is too depressed to fight for her hand . 
julia seems to like robbie too , but she can't leave her seemingly safe and stable fianc ? for the off-chance that robbie might be serious about her . 
you know the story . 
you've seen it a million times before . 
there's always a new way to tell it , with new lovers , new chemistry , and new details , but it's the same story . 
and sometimes , it works . 
the wedding singer works . 
first of all , the chemistry between sandler and barrymore is effective . 
actually , it's not so much the chemistry between the two as it is each one's own romantic tension . 
sandler captures the forlorn sleepwalking look of a jilted man , struck with an unattainable love . 
barrymore is charming as the girl next door looking for someone serious to settle down with . 
sparks don't fly when they kiss , but they both seem right for each other . 
second , their love is mature . 
they are not driven by passionate sexual attraction - they're a cute couple , but neither sandler nor barrymore is centerfold material . 
instead , they are both looking for someone meaningful , someone to settle down with , someone to grow old with . 
at a wedding , robbie comforts a kid throwing up in a dumpster while julia sits by . 
the repulsing situation is taken in stride , as if the two were already parents , caring for their sick child . 
the ? 80s soundtrack and references play a big part in this movie . 
other critics liked this movie in part because of the '80s soundtrack . 
i liked it in spite of the soundtrack . 
often , the music and references felt forced . 
for example , robbie tells his ex-fianc ? to " get out of my van halen t-shirt before you jinx the band and they break up . " 
 ( ha ha ha . 
get it ? 
david lee roth did leave van halen ! ) 
or how about when sammy ( allen covert ) , robbie's chauffeur friend , shows up at a party wearing a michael jackson jacket and - get this - a single silver glove . 
 ( that's exactly what mj used to wear all the time ! ) . 
unfortunately , making fun of generalizations about a past era is too easy to be rewarding . 
that's not to say the movie isn't funny . 
screenwriter tim herlihy has written for sandler before ( billy madison and happy gilmore ) , and the two make a good combination . 
herlihy knows what sort of jokes sandler is good at and has tailored the script to his straight-faced , smart-aleck style . 
let's hope herlihy and sandler stick together for a few more projects because this movie really won me over . 
with barrymore's charm and sandler's heart , it was hard to go wrong . 
 " when it's cold , molecules aren't moving . 
everything is clean . " 
these are the essential words of mikey carver ( elijah wood ) , a young teenage boy living in 1973 new canaan , connecticut in the ice storm . 
when mikey delivers these words to a bored science class , it is unlikely that anyone realizes how much they parallel mikey's life and the lives that surround him . 
his father jim ( jamey sheridan ) is rarely seen and his mother janey ( sigourney weaver ) is having an affair with married neighbor ben hood ( kevin kline ) . 
ben's wife elena ( joan allen ) suspects the affair , but doesn't say anything . 
meanwhile , ben's 14-year-old daughter wendy ( christina ricci ) continuously lures mikey and his younger brother sandy ( adam hann-byrd ) into sexual explorations . 
tobey maguire plays paul hood , the 16-year-old narrator of the story who also happens to be the least prevalent character . 
we start the film with an interesting outlook on family from paul . 
he compares family to the fantastic four comic book , and even goes so far as to say that family is everybody's own anti-matter ; something everybody will return to eventually , and the farther you go , the deeper you'll return . 
the ice storm is a character piece that explores a dismal time both in america , and in the individual lives portrayed in the movie . 
everything parallels everything else . 
the young teenagers trying to discover who they are thru drugs , sex , and alcohol is really almost identical to the parents trying to figure out the purpose in their own lives using the same methods . 
 " when it's cold outside , the molecules aren't moving . 
everything is clean . " 
everything is clean because nobody will admit what's going on . 
even the president is on tv denying his wrong-doings . 
how can you expect anything more out of a couple of suburban families riding the coattails of sexual revolution ? 
all the sex and drugs is so obviously empty , and i think that's the point of the film . 
at first viewing , the entire movie might seem empty , but then why shouldn't it parallel itself ? 
you don't get to know the characters very deeply , but i think that's because nobody in the movie knows each other either . 
we sadly watch two families go about their lives nearly oblivious to one another . 
at first glance , you might think emotion is lost in the ending scenes because you haven't gotten to know the characters well enough to sympathize - then you realize that just might be the point , and then you do feel the pain . 
the acting by all is quite good , but i particularly liked elijah wood . 
he doesn't seem to be receiving as much recognition as the others , but i still found him to possess quite a real sense of being . 
christina ricci is being acclaimed for her part as the misguided teenage temptress who looks for something more to her life in the pants of every available boy . 
still , i say hats off remain to wood , joan allen's subtle but believable performance as a lonely , unappreciated wife , and the always excellent kevin kline . 
tobey maguire did a fine job , but his character which , perhaps , was the most intact , sensible person in the story , seemed a little lost . 
he was needed , but perhaps he should've been used more . 
the ice storm is being hailed by many as one of the best films of the year . 
i hate to say that i don't agree , but i don't . 
in fact , i can think of many other films that i would rank higher than this one . 
even so , it is a very good film . 
it takes a lot of retrospect to fully appreciate it's art , but when you finally start seeing things in it that you didn't before , you start to grow even fonder of the characters and the story . 
perhaps this is one to see , ponder , and then watch again with different eyes . 
 " the end of the affair " is a dark and moody romantic period piece , that neil jordan exquisitely writes and directs . 
although it's slow and sometimes confusing to follow , it still manages to give audiences a moving experience . 
based on graham greene's novel of the same name , the film mainly follows 3 characters . 
there's maurice bendrix ( ralph fiennes ) who has an affair with henry mile's ( stephen rea ) wife sarah ( julianne moore ) . 
sarah finds henry to be a bore , because well , he's just a normal guy . 
it's all work and no play with him . 
while maurice on the other hand falls madly in love with sarah , and would do anything for her . 
unfortunately the two break up . 
this is all witnessed in a serious of flashbacks , so that leads us to the present . 
it's a few years later , and they both still think of each other , so maurice hires a private detective ( ian hart ) to see what sarah is up too . 
while this may sound straight forward it's not . 
it's a deep dark tale of the jealousy that lies in the two men , unhappiness , and the ever lasting love . 
all this may sound like a drag , but it really captures your interest . 
with great performances by ralph fiennes ( doing another english patient type of film , only this movie is better ) and julianna moore who definitely deserves an oscar because out of all 5 films she did in 1999 , i believe this was the role , she had the most passion for , and you can see why . 
the story was also well written thanks to neil jordan . 
even though i didn't read the book , there's no doubt in mind that it was just as moving and descriptive . 
what's so moving about it you ask ? 
the tragedy of it all . 
it's not the typical romance , in which a guy finds a girl , they fall in love and all is well , this is more complicated and depressing . 
it really shows the complexity of a relationship , because nothing is ever perfect . 
everyone feels a different way and that is what tears us to pieces . 
back to neil jordan's script , it wasn't only red roses . 
there were times when i felt it too be a little slow , but most romances are . 
it also tended to be a bit confusing , especially at the start . 
it keep jumping around from past to present , so it obviously took awhile to get a grasp of things . 
also a notable was the superb direction by neil jordan . 
i'd have to say this is his finest achievement to date , because quite frankly i've never really found his work to be up to par . 
it just never did anything for me , until now . 
when it ends , it leaves viewers a little saddened , but provoked nonetheless . 
this is definitely one of the best films of 99 , and had some of the best acting , most notably by moore . 
not for all movie goers , but for those who are film buffs and want something of value . 
titanic is , without a doubt , the best movie i've seen all year . 
and believe me , i'm not an easy critic to impress : the english patient was too long , men in black was over-hyped , and several of the " big summer releases " were dead in the water . 
thank god this film got delayed until december . 
it's my christmas present . 
titanic is in the tradition of the old hollywood epics of years-gone-by , and it is truly a stunning film . 
while watching this picture you are completely mesmerized , never taking your eyes off the screen , nor checking your watch to see how much longer it's gonna last , despite its 3 hour plus running time . 
as a friend of mine , who's a true titanic-buff , said " if someone doesn't like this film , it's because they didn't want to . " 
truer words are hard to come by . 
of course , it doesn't hurt that this film comes from one of my favorite directors , james cameron , who is unarguably the greatest action director of all time . 
if you wish to argue that point with me , look at his list of credits : the terminator , aliens , the abyss , terminator 2 , true lies , etc . still care to disagree ? 
not only has cameron helmed the directorial duties of this film , he also wrote , produced , and edited it . 
and to show his true faith for the project , he renenged all directing fees and percentage points to ease the budget costs . 
it's obvious he truly loves titanic . 
the film opens with footage , both real and fake , of an underwater excursion by special submarines to the bottom of the atlantic , where a team of explorers lead by bill paxton are searcing for a diamond called the " heart of the ocean " , which , according to bill paxton's character , would be worth more than the hope diamond today . 
their search turns up , dissapointly , no diamond , but instead a drawing of a young woman wearing the diamond . 
this picture is broadcast on cnn and is seen by a 101 year old woman named rose , who claims to be the girl in the picture . 
she is flown out to sea to meet bill paxton and to tell them about the diamond . 
almost all of the rest of the movie is her narration of the past . 
rose's narration shows us how she was an unhappy young girl , engaged to a rich man named cal hockley ( billy zane ) that she didn't want to marry . 
her mother is pushy and obnoxious , and cal hockley is arrogant . 
they are boarding the titanic , which is sailing to america , and this is where she is to marry cal . 
meanwhile , a young man named jack dawson ( leonardo dicaprio ) and his italian friend ( danny nucci ) win two 3rd class tickets aboard the titanic in a poker game . 
they are overjoyed , and rush aboard just as the boat is leaving . 
for them , this is their ticket to america , to a better life . 
for rose , she is sailing to her doom . 
the first hour and a half or so of titanic tells the story of how rose dewitt ( kate winslet ) and jack dawson fall in love . 
it's the classic wrong-side-of-the-tracks story , and does sometimes resort to a few cliches . 
but as i said above , the love portion isn't sappy and doesn't " weigh the film down " , as some critics have said . 
it's sweet , and it didn't make me restless at all , despite the fact that i usually hate love stories . 
of course , it might help that cameron introduces some pretty interesting characters to help keep our eyes glued to the screen . 
most of these people actually were passengers on the titanic back in 1912 , including the enigmatic molly brown ( played by the talented kathy bates ) , the captain of titanic ( bernard hill ) , and so on . 
all of these characters add an extra depth to the film , and make it that easier to watch . 
of course , things really start to get going after the hour and a half mark , where the titanic strikes the iceberg and begins a slow sink to the bottom . 
the sinking is depicted realisticly , and the effects are truly amazing . 
it is not told in a heroic fashion sense either , as people are portrayed as panicking , pushing others aside to get on the limited lifeboats , and drowning and dying horrible deaths . 
the best part of the movie , in my opinion , comes at the very end , when we flash back to the future . 
the crew , who at first had been skeptical of rose's story , now are totally aborbed by her . 
rose goes out onto the ship's ledge , and we then learn a secret about her that catches us off guard . 
we then see a dream of rose's , in which she returns to the titanic and is dancing with jack dawson . 
most people i talked with after the movie saw this as only a dream . 
however , i think it symbolized more ; i think it meant that rose had died , and is going to a sort of heaven , which would be the happiest part of her life : her and her one true love , jack . 
if anyone has seen the movie and would like to voice an opinion about this , e-mail me at venom8@hotmail . com . 
sometimes you just have to tip your hat to a film . 
sometimes you just have to jump on the bandwagon and enjoy the ride . 
i saw the truman show with an audience full of teenagers , most of whom were no doubt drawn by ace ventura himself and hoping to see his latest take on fart jokes . 
surprised , they may have been , when they realized that this picture actually had something to say . 
but by the attentiveness of the crowd i'd say they were won over - as was i . i can't tell yet if truman really is that good , or if it only seems that good in comparison to the awful mountain of crap spewed forth from the bowls of hollywood so far this year . 
time alone will make that call . 
but by the end of the film we were all on truman burbank's side . 
we were concerned for his well-being , and wanted him to win . 
that we felt as we did is a tribute both to the film and to jim carrey , who has achieved legitimacy at last . 
the truman show is a film best viewed cold , with as little foreknowledge as possible about the plot . 
unless you're under a media blackout , however , you probably know the basics . 
carrey stars as truman burbank , a capra-esque everyman insurance agent living with his beautiful wife meryl ( laura linney ) in the south florida island town of seahaven , which looks like michael eisner's idea of the perfect american small town . 
truman would seem to live the perfect middle class lifestyle , complete with a working wife , a best bud , friendly neighbors and interesting co-workers . 
there is tragedy in his past - his father drowned in a horrible boating accident , leaving truman with a dreadful fear of water , and of travel in general - but overall , life is good . 
but then one day as truman leaves his house for work , a klieg light falls magically from the sky . 
this curious event may lead truman to discover what the rest of the world already knows : that he is a prisoner on the world's biggest soundstage , that his wife , friends and relatives are all actors paid to interact with him , and that his life has , for over 10 , 000 days , been broadcast as the world's most popular television program . 
what makes the first hour of truman so enjoyable to watch is the magical verisimilitude painstakingly constructed by niccol and weir . 
the soundstage , we're told , is " only the second man-made structure visible from space . " 
truman's movements are tracked ceaselessly by 5 , 000 cameras scattered throughout the town : button cams , dashboard cams , mirror cams , wife cams , big cams and small cams . 
weir cuts the film so we're never quite sure if we're watching truman through the camera of director weir or through the camera of the show's omnipotent creator christof ( ed harris ) who oversees the show from a control room built into the man-made moon in seahaven's sky . 
the second act offers a plethora of clues for truman as to the truth of his existence . 
his best friend marlon ( noah emmerich ) always has a six pack of beer with him . 
his wife seems to exist in an eternal commercial in which she is always endorsing the latest hot household product . 
he sees the same people walking in the same set patterns all over town . 
one wonders why he didn't pick up on any of this earlier , but christof has an answer for this : " people tend to accept the reality with which they're presented . " 
nevertheless , truman begins to grow restless , and dreams of escape to fiji , where an old college sweetheart ( natasha mcelhone ) supposedly lives . 
this convincing reality of television as progenitor of reality is a magical and provocative concept ; the best thing jim carrey does is stay out of its way . 
by underplaying truman , he allows the subtle manipulations of the film to take over . 
there is a particularly poignant scene in which truman confides his fears to marlon , and marlon answers with best-friend sincerity , " i'd gladly step in front of a bus for you . " 
but that line was fed to marlon through an earpiece by christof . 
the abject cruelty to which truman is subjected to hits home - and from that moment , we're on his side . 
the truman show derives much of its success from playing to our own secret paranoid fantasies - haven't we all , at least once , doubted our place in the world , doubted the sincerity of those closest to us ? 
ultimately , however , the picture rises above its own artifice to raise some real questions about the relationship of humankind and our creator . 
what does god really think of us ? 
does he resent our abandonment of paradise ? 
who exactly is watching us , up there in the sky ? 
if you enjoy the picture as much as i did , credit weir for allowing the magic of the screenplay to work . 
as for carrey - well , truman burbank is the kind of role that jimmy stewart was born to play . 
carrey is no jimmy stewart ; to his credit , he doesn't try to be . 
he just tries to feel the way you or i would , if we suddenly found out that the whole world was watching us . 
i didn't realize how apt the name of this movie was until i called the mpaa ( the motion picture association of america - the folks who decide what's g , nc 17 , pg , r or x ) to ask why the preview was rated r . so that we can make some sense of their response , let me tell you about the movie itself . 
 " the celluloid closet " is a documentary about how homosexuality has been portrayed in the movies over the past several decades . 
it's brilliant , funny , naughty and extremely poignant . 
it tore at my heart to watch a gifted lesbian screenwriter explain that , as a rule , gay audiences hunger for any hint of homosexuality on screen . 
regardless of how veiled - or how sordid - the presence of a gay or lesbian person allows others to lessen their sense of isolation and makes them feel as if they're not quite so invisible as america seems to want them to be . 
the movie itself is rated r - and for good reason . 
it contains scenes of bloody , violent gay bashing and graphic , uninhibited , sex . 
as with any movie , i appreciate knowing about these things ahead of time , so i can decide for myself whether to see the movie with a friend , a date , my 11 year old niece , alone or not at all . 
but , that's the movie . 
now back to the preview . 
prior to this film being theatrically released ( it was originally filmed as a documentary for hbo ) i had seen the coming attractions trailer for it at least six times . 
there was no nudity , no violence , no bad language , nothing that i could see that would be offensive or inappropriate for a general audience ( okay , whoopi goldberg did refer to someone " boning " someone , but the last i knew that wasn't one of the seven words you can't say on tv ) . 
except for a scene of two fully clothed men kissing . 
hmmmmm . 
when i inquired about the rating on the trailer , a very nice woman at the mpaa quoted from " the handbook " that a trailer approved for all audiences could contain " no homosexuality or lesbianism and no going down on someone . " 
hello ? i was in the office and it was the middle of the day . 
bravely , i pursued . 
 " i've seen that trailer , oh . . . 
probably half a dozen times , " i gulped . . . 
 " and i don't remember that scene . " 
 " well , " she chirped . 
 " it's there . 
our little eyes are trained to see that . " 
no really . 
in the words of dave barry , " i am not making this up . " 
they are " trained " to " see that ? " 
when someone who was shocked at the rating the first time and made a note to watch it carefully the following five times or so managed to let it slip past her ? 
gosh , i certainly don't mean to question the mpaa , or " the handbook " . 
i would , however , like to suggest that it's they who are in the closet on this one . 
and the light ain't good in there . 
but , having seen " the celluloid closet , " and being one of a handful of straight people involved in a primarily gay and lesbian weekly bible study ( email me and i'll give you the details ) , none of this was any big surprise . 
the point of the movie was that homosexuality , even in the politically correct 90s , is ridiculously perceived as a threat to a mostly heterosexual society . 
a point well made in this candid and honest film . 
now , i could go off on the mpaa's ruling that a trailer must contain " no homosexuality or lesbianism " and ask how that is defined , particularly in light of some of the things , both sexual and non-sexual , that i've watched straight people do in trailers . 
i just don't feel the need to go there , because it seems so obvious . 
i'll instead suggest that the mpaa re-evaluated their evaluation criteria . 
let the ratings reflect not subject content , like " sex " and " violence " . 
let them reflect attitude content . 
in the future , i'd be interested in knowing whether the movie is rated d for disrespectful or s for stereotyped . 
then i'd truly be able to make an informed decision about how i spent my time . 
118 minutes ; not rated ( though i suspect it would be rated pg for adult themes and language ) 
mamoru oshii is a name that probably isn't very well-known to most american audiences , but perhaps it should be . 
oshii was the director of last year's best-known japanese animated film import , _ghost in the shell_ , and is known among fans of japanese animation , or anime , for making films with a deep philosophical bent . 
one of these films was the first theatrical venture for the patlabor animated series . 
in its many incarnations--graphic novels ( " manga " ) , two different runs of made-for-video episodes ( original animation videos , or oavs for short ) , and a television series running to nearly fifty episodes--patlabor has proven to be one of the most popular series ever in japan . 
set in the very near future ( though it was a somewhat farther away near future when the series was first conceived ) , this atypical giant robot anime features the characters , rather than the machinery , as the primary focus . 
as a whole , patlabor is the story of an exciting time for japan . 
as the prologue to each episode of the television series explains , giant industrial robots , known as " labors " ( an interesting play on words , considering that " robot " is derived from the czech word for labor ) , have come into widespread use in japan toward the close of the twentieth century . 
with the rise of labors , however , has come a new menace--labor crime . 
this led to the creation of the two special vehicle divisions , using patrol labors to fight labor crime . 
the patlabor story centers around the second special vehicle division , sv2 , who , through no fault of their own , have acquired a bad reputation for destructiveness . 
sometimes utterly hilarious , sometimes almost deadly serious , the patlabor series explores the interpersonal relationships of the special vehicle crewmembers , and also looks at the effects of technology on modern life . 
those who are unfamiliar with the patlabor story and characters may find themselves slightly confused coming into the movie , although there is ample background exposition provided for new viewers . 
the story , as has much of patlabor before , centers around the controversial babylon project , a gigantic seawall that will , on its completion , allow the reclamation of thousands of square miles of land from tokyo bay . 
this project has been an almost constant target of environmentalist terrorists , most notably the house of sea organization . 
however , the threat in this case comes not from any terrorist , but from someone who is already dead . . . 
shinohara heavy industries , the premier labor manufacturer in japan ( if not the whole world ) , has just come out with a new operating system that increases labors' movement speed and efficiency by 30% . 
this hyper operating system , hos for short , has very quickly been installed into well over 90% of the nation's labors . . . including the patrol labors of sv2 . 
since that installation , dozens of labors , including a heavily-armed military model , have begun to go on berzerk rampages for no apparent reason . . . and the only factor they all had in common was that they were all running under the new hos . 
 ( some wags have compared this to windows 95 . ) 
it's up to asuma shinohara , labor command officer with sv2 and the son of the president of shinohara heavy industries , to find the source of these problems before more labors--including sv2's own--fall victim to them , and before hos drags his father's company down with it . 
as was the case with _ghost in the shell_ , if you just want a no-brainer actionfest , this might not be the movie for you . 
_patlabor : the movie_ is more of a psychological thriller , a technological suspense drama . 
it is closer , perhaps , to a chrichton novel than to an action movie ( crichton novels that have been made _into_ action movies notwithstanding ) . 
there are long , thoughtful montages of dialogueless footage as two investigators make their way through slums and derelict housing in old quarters of tokyo , similar to sequences from _ghost in the shell_ . 
this movie is fraught with symbolism--in fact a large part of it is based on christian symbolism . 
patlabor's near-future setting is , aside from the giant robots tromping around , very similar to our own present day . 
the film uses this setting to make its central point : is progress moving too fast for humans to keep up ? 
are history and culture falling by the wayside like the old buildings that are being torn down and replaced with new ? 
this is a question just as applicable to today as it is to patlabor's alternate-1999 setting . 
as far as the technical aspects of the film go ( referring to the subtitled version , as that's the only one i've seen ) , the film transfer is clear , almost phenomenally so . 
the animation quality is incredible , though the character design is different from what most patlabor fans will be used to . 
the oavs and tv series were more cheerful , better-suited to humor ; the movie , however , makes everyone look a great deal less cute , and emphasizes that this is going to be , for the most part , a deadly serious storyline . 
as far as cinematography goes , there are many interesting moments in _patlabor : the movie_ . 
i don't think i can recall ever seeing a fish-eye perspective used in any other animated film ( save for _ghost in the shell_ , another oshii film ) , or indeed , in many other movies at all . 
the cinematography is well-suited to the storyline , emphasizing what it needs to , though a couple of scenes ( where characters' features are exaggerated in anger ) may seem slightly strange to western audiences . 
the audio track of _patlabor : the movie_ is in glorious hi-fi stereo , and should be used to demonstrate home theater systems--it _is_ that good . 
even without headphones , sounds from either side of the screen can be clearly heard to _come_ from that side . 
giant robot footsteps are deep and booming . 
the sometimes-understated , sometimes-blaring score is crisp and clear , and always right on the mark , enhancing the moods created by the animated scenery . 
as far as the subtitles go , i have to say that they're among the most easily-readable subtitles i've ever seen for _anything_ . 
large enough that they don't strain the eyes , but small enough not to conceal too much of the screen . 
although it does have several action sequences in it , most notably the climactic conclusion , _patlabor_ is foremost not an action movie . 
although it is a superbly-realized film , it relies in large part upon prior familiarity with some of the characters to carry the story , and that could detract from some people's enjoyment . 
my . 
okay , let me first say , this is a beavis and butthead movie . 
if you do not like beavis and butthead , do not go to see this movie ! ! ! ! ! 
however , if you do like them , i recommened you get out right now and go see it . 
the movie starts off with the boys wondering what happened to their tv . 
they notice that it has been stolen and they vow to find it . 
this wind their way through america searching for dallas ( she is a woman ) . 
they look for her because as they are searching for the tv , they find a drunk who wants them " to do " his wife . 
well , of course they think he wants them to score with her when actually he wants them to kill her . 
and the fun starts their . 
this movie is a mix of funny gags that anly beavis and butthead could pull off . 
it is quality entertainment that only fan of beavis and butthead would enjoy . 
i enjoyed this movie alot because mike judge knew how to keep pace . 
even when they were crawling through the desert and i thought the movie started to lag , he manages to keep the laughs coming . 
if you expecting changes from the show keep looking . 
the same character , the same voices , the same everything from the show and that's what makes it good . 
you might think with a movie from a tv show , you can change a few things . 
often times this spells disaster for films because the film makers veer away from what made the show popular in the first place ! 
taking a few tips from the pulp fiction school of filmmaking , go is the new feature from the director of the cult hit swingers . 
the story centres around a group of people , who include brit simon ( askew ) , and checkout girls claire ( holmes ) and ronna ( polley ) and the misadventures that they get into , split into three chapters . 
everything from sex to drugs to violence is covered in a film with a much blacker edge in comedy than swingers . 
although qt's touch is evident in nearly every frame , go is entertaining enough to forget about the similarities and just enjoy the rollercoaster ride . 
liman , who also photographed the film , has a deft touch with the camera , and the film looks good . 
the film also seems to have benefited from a budget , with the night-club scenes in particular looking pretty good . 
there's a twisted sense of humour running throughout which ensures that even the darkest scenes get a smirk . 
the young cast are talented and help bring the story to life . 
holmes , one of the dawson's creek cast ( a show i'm not particularly fond of ) displays much talent here , and despite her largely limited screen time manages to make a three dimensional character and never becomes a caricature . 
askew is slightly successful , being rather obnoxious . 
no doubt the filmmakers intended this to make the audience cheer when what happens to him , but instead of 'funny annoying' he's just annoying . 
he drags down slightly one of the funniest chapters , but the talent around him in that particular tale more than makes up for it . 
the real standout is sarah polley as the drug dealing checkout girl : her refreshing and deeply enjoyable performance makes the heavy going stories she is involved in much more entertaining . 
also entertaining timothy olyphant as the rather sinister drug dealer , who gives an nice evil performance . 
the script , written john august , is sharp and witty , with good dialogue and some funny jokes . 
it starts off rather slow however , but in about twenty minutes the script has found it's footing and just keeps getting better . 
the stories are largely satisfying , although occasionally there's too much attention on one detail but not on another . 
also , some of the endings seem a little forced and lucky . 
still , the cast have a meaty script to get into and obviously enjoy it . 
it could of tried a little harder in some parts however , and these parts lag . 
because this is a gen-xer movie , the obligatory rave soundtrack must accompany , and go's one is pretty decent . 
unlike other gen-xers movies , go never allows the music to substitute for plot or dialogue , which is a plus . 
go is a very easy movie to absorb into , and the audience really starts feeling for these characters . 
thankfully , they never become two dimensional characters who are bent and twisted throughout the movie to fit into the stories mechanics ( like the heroine in 10 things i hate about you . ) 
they are who they are and they stay that way . 
go is great fun , and a worthy follow up from the director of swingers . 
ignore the fact that it steals from pulp fiction and very bad things , and just sit back and enjoy the rollercoaster ride . 
erm , go to go , i guess . 
garry shandling makes his long overdue starring film debut as an alien from a planet populated only by genetically created men , who are looking to take over the earth by propagating their own species there . 
shandling is chosen for the mission , is given the name harold anderson , and is set up as a banker in seattle . 
after a few disastrous " mating " attempts , he figures his best bet will be susan ( annette bening ) , a former alcoholic who eventually tells harold that she won't have sex again until she gets married . 
the leader of harold's planet ( ben kingsley ) tells him to marry her , and harold is soon exposed to all the " joys " of married life . 
despite its title and premise which seem to imply that this is some jerry lewis vehicle from the late 1960s , what planet are you from ? 
is a very funny movie . 
the plot ( which the film wisely doesn't linger on the specifics of for too long ) is of course nothing more than framework for the jokes , most of which work very well . 
the material may be considered crude and tasteless by many , and i might have thought so as well had shandling not been the lead . 
but he brings a sort of pathetic charm to the role , and it's his performance that makes the film truly funny instead of just offensive . 
plus if you think about it , what planet are you from ? 
could have very easily gone the gross-out route ( considering that shandling's character is given a detachable penis that vibrates and hums when he gets excited ) . 
we never see anything though , it's all implied , which gives the film a touch of class amidst its crudeness . 
i'm glad to see that someone in hollywood still understands the concept of " less is more " . 
the talented supporting cast certainly adds to one's enjoyment of this film . 
annette bening ( oddly playing a merged version of her real estate salesman character from american beauty and her ditzy spiritualist character from mars attacks ! ) 
does a fine job keeping up with shandling and makes a good catalyst for his brand of humor . 
she even manages to pull off a potentially disastrous scene where she has to perform a rather goofy rendition of " high hopes " for a lengthy period of time . 
ben kingsley , john goodman and greg kinnear all fare well in their performances as well , and linda fiorentino . . . 
good lord , there should be some sort of law stating that no woman can be that sexy . 
everything about her character in this film oozes raw sexuality . 
what planet are you from ? 
is available on dvd from columbia tristar home video . 
the disc gives you the choice of either watching the film full frame or in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 ( and enhanced for 16x9 televisions . 
also included on the disc as extras : a decent making-of featurette , an isolated score track , talent files for the cast and crew , and the film's original theatrical trailer ( as well as trailers for wolf , men in black , bugsy and as good as it gets ) . 
when i first saw that the disc featured an isolated score track , i actually laughed . 
how great could the music for a silly little comedy be for it to get it's own isolated track ? 
well as it turns out , it's a mighty fine score from carter burwell ( fargo , the hudsucker proxy ) that i enjoyed listening to again while i typed up this review . 
kudos to columbia tristar for adding that feature to the disc . 
what planet are your from ? 
was unjustly ignored in theaters , and i hope it finds its deserved audience on home video . 
this fine dvd is certainly a great way to see it . 
[r] 
there's a moment in schindler's list when a number of jews are trudging through snow , clean and crisp , dark edges and frost on the ground . 
one girl waltzes through , wearing a red dress that stings the eyes . 
it is probably the finest moment through out the film . 
when i first saw it i began to cry , though i could not say why . 
this landscape is the setting of many small moments that add up to one big whole . 
when one man is shot in the head we see blood oozing out onto the ground -- so black and murky , its almost pomegranate red . 
at another time we follow a young boy as he runs , searching for a hiding spot before finally squeezing into a toilet -- which is already occupied . 
like so ( citizen kane , fargo , the godfather , the godfather part ii , greed , ) many of the greatest american films , schindler's list plays with the concepts of money , power , and soul . 
but this is a movie about a man who does the right thing . 
starkly emotional , and brutally powerful , schindler's list strips away everything on the outset and leaves us ony feelings . 
the following that it has gained is not suprising -- this is probably , thus far , the best film of the decade . 
steven spielberg has always been a skilfull filmmaker -- his assured hand churned out both jurassic parks , jaws , the indiana jones films , and e . t . 
-- but it wasn't until 1993 that we saw what a brilliant man he can be . 
the product of his genuis is really something to see -- it can bring tears to your eyes just as it uplifts you . 
throughout , we sense the deep control which he so masterfully spreads . 
we watch oskar schindler ( liam neeson ) grow from an arrogant , self important man who hires jews only to save money into a moving figure , with a deep sense of pride and accomplishment . 
the film requires much work , and can be a harrowing experience -- go expecting a quick entertainment and you'll be bitterly dissapointed . 
it does reward the patient viewer . 
this is a mature spielberg , and his deft hands shape an absoloute masterpiece . 
this eqsuisite , beautiful film is a rare gem . 
it does a good job of summarizing why i love movies . 
it leaves one breathless , uplifted , and with much to think about . 
afterwards you can reflect on individual images , visions , and people . 
laconic , removed , schindler strides through the film a detached prescence who watches all , does much , and leaves feeling as if he could , should , have done more then he did and was able to . 
the change seems natural -- in the hands of a lesser filmmaker , it would be crude and would cheat the audience . 
instead we are told a tale , told a story . 
the film is punishing to watch , yes . 
but anyone who allows themselves to get involved will experience a miracle , and a genuine masterpiece of a movie . 
i recall the trials and tribulations of my high school years . 
it was a period that would mercilessly force me to exit boyhood and thrust me into the unwelcome arms of adulthood . 
but of all the experiences that i collected throughout those tender years , i can honestly say that the toughest and the scariest thing that i had to cope with was my raging hormones and my crazed curiosity about girls and sex . 
yes , more scarier than my seventh grade english teacher and even scarier than the bullies that constantly hounded me , trying to deal with my personal wonderment about sex was like trying to fight an invisible monster . 
for all teenagers , it's almost like a rite of passage . 
and what we did was sometimes downright nasty , sometimes funny , and sometimes shocking . 
and all of that is terrifically and shamelessly brought to light in what might be the funniest movie this summer . 
`american pie' is a comedy about four sexually frustrated seniors that enter into a pact to lose their virginity by the end of the school year . 
just how great are their hormones raging ? 
one of them notes , after watching disney's the little mermaid , that ariel is soooo hot . 
the four schoolmates are kevin , oz , finch and jim . 
kevin is the only one with a steady girlfriend , but doesn't want to have sex until the time is just right . 
but what is the perfect time ? 
there is just no way to know , and that frightens him . 
oz is the big jock who decides that the way to score with the girls is to listen to them and to be more sensitive . 
he joins up with a jazz choir and discovers that getting in touch with his feminine side has some tremendous advantages . 
finch is the phobic hermit who doesn't stand a chance with any girl . 
so , he pays someone $200 to start spreading rumors about his prowess . 
suddenly , girls are lining up to go out with him . 
but among these friends , it is jim that is the most curious and the most fearful . 
when he has a chance to romp with a pretty exchange student , his inexperience comes shining through . 
he has much to learn , and will do anything to seek out this kind of knowledge . 
this may include watching scrambled porn channels or experimenting with mom's apple pie in a scene that is completely shocking , raunchy , yet unbelievably funny . 
the one thing that i want to say about this film is that it well deserves its `r' rating . 
there is stuff in here that is completely gross in the same manner that `there's something about mary' was gloriously ribald . 
in fact , at first this film received a sinful nc-17 rating before a couple of more cuts finally brought it down to a teen-accessible rating . 
but i guess after seeing the no-holds-barred coarseness of south park , this seems tame by comparison . 
teens and anyone who can still remember their acne years are the ones that will laugh hardest . 
but unlike many teen sex comedies , there is a genuine intelligence at work here . 
these are four normal boys who have a natural curiosity about sex . 
their plans of action are thoughtful and they think about the consequences . 
they know what they want , yet temper it with responsibility . 
but almost always , it's impossible to know how to fight the invisible monster , and it's these episodes that make `american pie' such a carnal delight to watch . 
full metal jacket , very much like every other hard-hitting film about the vietnam war , is an shocking , emotional depiction of the war that effected almost everyone in america . 
this film is more like platoon than any other in the way that it chronicles the struggles of a young man ( private joker , played by matthew modine ) during his tour in the vietnam war . 
however , full metal jacket gives the audience an insight into combat life very rarely seen before : boot camp . 
these sequences are considered to be the best part in this three act film , even though i found the later portions to be equally stunning . 
as in platoon , full metal jacket gets off to a quick start . 
the opening sequence is the initiation for the recruits , which is getting their heads shaved . 
from there , they find themselves standing at attention and receiving their orders from the extremely hard and punishing sergeant hartman , played extremely well by the former drill instructor r . lee ermey . 
apparently , the solution was found for the perfect man to play a drill instructor in the movies , because ermey depicts his character extremely well and will make you thank whomever that you were never subjected to such horrible situations . 
private joker gets off on the wrong foot with the sergeant , as does the large bodied private leonard lawrence ( vincent d'onofrio ) , whom is dubbed 'gomer pyle' by sgt . 
hartman . 
the film is continually narrated by private joker , in which he explains his visions on what is going on . 
the entire corps , although repeatedly hammered by sgt . 
hartman , continues on . 
private pyle , however , seems to be the rag doll for the drill instructor . 
he continually absorbs the worst punishment and humiliation , and it basically does not stop . 
that is , until sgt . 
hartman comes up with a new plan . 
he will punish the rest of the soon-to-be-marines for pyle's goof-ups , even after joker was assigned to help him out in the best way he can . 
pyle then receives punishment from his fellow recruits , and things take a turn for the worst . 
pyle proves that not everyone is emotionally , physically , and mentally cut out for the life of a marine . 
after graduation , joker is sent over to the height of the action in order to document the war , which is his service . 
he is not a member of the infantry , and it is unclear if he will ever actually find himself in combat . 
when he sets out on a documenting mission , this question becomes very clear from the start . 
joker joins up with a platoon , along with his hometown friend cowboy ( arliss howard ) , and follows their everyday actions , interviewing and filmming them along the way . 
he also soon finds himself in a position in which he must fight , or die . 
again , as in the tradition of vietnam war films , full metal jacket can be debated as to whether it is an anti-war film or not . 
a few of the more powerful scenes toward the end will leave you to decide . 
full metal jacket succeeds extremely well in documenting the life of a young man in vietnam , as have others in the past . 
this film , in different ways , also can be viewed as more powerful than others . 
that , again , is up for debate and depends on your opinion . 
one thing is for sure , however ; no one ever wants to experience the absolute hell that these soldiers are subjected to . 
unfortunately , many did . 
oliver stone's latest feature is the last one standing in the long line of biographies of american presidents . 
it's a three-hour long saga about the life of one of the most hated and misunderstood leaders of the 20th century . 
stone doesn't hold back anything as he digs deep inside politics and legal maneuvers of the white house . 
the director holds nixon responsible for everything he has done . 
at the same time he creates a very human character , a brilliant and tortured man that is caught in the dirty game of politics , which is here pictured as a wild animal . 
he is simply trying to tame it . 
but the occasional switch to the raging sky and the clouds swiftly fleeing over the white house as events run ahead of the president's ability to control them . 
stone doesn't in any way apologize for nixon . 
he blames not only nixon's own character flaws but also the imperial presidency itself , the system that , once set in motion , behaves with a mindlessness of its own . 
 " nixon " is a modern shakespeare story - a saga about a ruler destroyed by his fatal flaws . 
there's something almost majestic about the process : as nixon goes down in this film , there is no gloating , but a watery sigh , as of a great ship sinking . 
sir anthony hopkins is staggering and plays nixon with incredible honesty and understanding , creating a very emotional picture of the 37th american president . 
joan allen's magnificent and captivating performance is certainly worth an oscar statuette . 
she is strong and loyal as mrs . nixon . 
the rest of the cast is equally magnificent , including : james woods , j . t . walsh , paul sorvino , ed harris and bob hoskins . 
everyone does a serious and demanding job , no one are disappointing . 
stone never loses focus and his direction is steddy , honest and determined . 
he is displaying the historical facts and at the same time concentrating at the human element . 
at times he is showing to black and white showing flashbacks from nixon's youth and childhood . 
the flashy editing by brian berdan and frank corwin , robert richardson's rich cinematography and john williams' musical score create a hectic and bizarre atmosphere . 
the film's only fault is that it's a bit tiering and overloaded with too much political material and legal maneuvers . 
still it's an honest and captivating - a solid piece of movie making . 
in tim burton's `sleepy hollow' , there is a mysterious headless horseman who decapitates residents of the small town of the same name . 
he rides a beautiful black steed and carries an imposing sword that cauterizes the wound of his victims with an immediate swipe . 
burton's update on washington irving's classic tale of `the legend of sleepy hollow' offers us the mystery of the horseman , when the screenplay should have merely settled on the aspect of the horror . 
writer andrew kevin walker ( `seven' ) throws in perhaps too healthy a dosage of sherlock holmes , but the visual treatment of the film is absolutely entrancing , as burton offers foggy locales and detailed costumes that are gorgeous and stirring to examine . 
as `sleepy hollow' opens , we're greeted with a juicy cameo from martin landau , who won an oscar in burton's `ed wood' . 
landau plays a prominent citizen of sleepy hollow , who , on a fateful carriage ride through the forest , is decapitated by an unseen horseback rider . 
after two more murders haunt the residents of the quaint little town , constable ichabod crane ( johnny depp ) is sent in to investigate . 
landlord baltus von tassel ( michael gambon ) explains to crane that the heads have been severed from the carcass and mysteriously taken in each separate case , and that they believe the murderer is a dead hessian trooper ( played briefly by a wonderfully jarring christopher walken ) who has risen from the grave after being decapitated in the western woods . 
crane is not a man of great superstition , and is determined to root out the human culprit with his assortment of gizmos and gadgets ( things i was not surprised to find in a tim burton movie ) . 
first and foremost , `sleepy hollow' is a fun horror film . 
as with virtually all burton movies , we are treated to a wonderful score by composer danny elfman , who has once again poured excitement and imagination into an atmospheric soundtrack that accentuates the gothic mood perfectly . 
the horseman f/x are stylish and impressive , particularly in perfectly blended battle sequences involving actual actors . 
but why did i enjoy `sleepy hollow' as much as i did ? 
although enjoyable , it was not the numerous beheadings and the plentiful gore that spurted left and right . . 
it was the light comic touch that burton applied . 
the film has the sweetness of a candy apple , usually channeled through depp's wonderful performance as the lovable geek ichabod crane , who is no longer a mild-mannered school teacher but still attains his cowardly qualities . 
this is certainly not the only alteration that's been made . 
as the film progresses , it becomes apparent that walker is more concerned with the mystery of the murders than the murders themselves . 
the momentum is slowed considerably once crane begins piecing the mystery together , because for the audience , it's not an issue we particularly wish to be solved . 
it's more effective for the headless horseman to be an elusive demon than an elusive demon with an ulterior motive . 
still , we are still captivated by the breathtaking technical detail and burton's keen eye to capture our attention . 
the costuming is exceptional , and the dialogue is crisp and effective throughout ( it's recognizable that the script was refined by award-winning playwright tom stoppard ) . 
the supporting cast exhibits more color and playfulness than many . 
a blonde christina ricci is in fine form as von tassel's daughter katrina , and an unlikely romance between she and ichabod is surprisingly consistent . 
walken , michael gough ( who appeared in burton's `batman' films ) and miranda richardson are all enjoyable in tackling their separate roles . 
i suppose the strengths behind `sleepy hollow' lie within the central trio : director burton , constable depp and the headless horseman who hunts him down with ruthless accuracy . 
all of this is not to be taken seriously , of course . 
`sleepy hollow' is a lavish , frightening and altogether amusing reworking of a classic tale that many people cherished as children . 
if you've got a decent head on your shoulders , you'll have the good sense to gallop off to the theater and enjoy it one last time . 
ok , i admit i had a bad attitude about this film from the start . 
a romantic comedy about the trials and tribulations of single working parents ? 
with a couple of incredibly cute kids thrown in for good measure ? 
yuck . 
but it's not really too bad . 
it has a lot working against it , for me at least . 
in addition to the above , it is typical of a lot of recent movies in that it is really just a glorified made-for-tv movie , but longer and with bigger stars , and you have to pay to see it . 
it does win you over , though , even if it is painfully predictable . 
just think about it : two single parents , with their cute kids , are thrown together due to a missed field trip . 
through a day of near disasters , they cont inually meet , get in one another's way , cause trouble for one another , and generally insult one another at every opportunity . 
in fact , they hate each other so much that we know that they are , or soon will be , in love . 
the only people who hate each other more than lovers are married couples . 
so this film is predictable , just as the screwball comedies of the classical hollywood cinema were predictable ( and the screwball genre is obviously hoffman's model for this film ) . 
will they get fired from their yuppie jobs ? 
will they make the big soccer game that is so important to their kids ? 
will pfeiffer realize what a jerk her ex-husband , a drummer for bruce springsteen , really is ( aren't they all ? ) ? 
will they finally kiss ? 
well , what do you expect ? 
but there is a certain amount of satisfaction in having our expectations fulfilled , especially when it is done with as much humour , along with a lack of sticky sentimentality , as it is in this film . 
pfeiffer and clooney have a certain chemistry together that is surprisingly charming , and the kids are neither shoved into the background nor allowed to steal the show . 
one word of caution , though . 
this film is being billed in some places as a " family " movie . 
don't let that stop you . 
however , i think most kids , especially boys , would be pretty bored by this move . 
after all , nobody gets killed and there are no explosions . 
all in all , a good , non-offensive date movie . 
the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
bowfinger is a good movie about the making of a very bad one . 
the screenplay , written by co-star steve martin , skewers everything in hollywood from cheesy science-fiction movies to chop-socky fight sequences , and all in a crafty and accomplished manner . 
anyone who knows of , or has had any association with movie-making should thoroughly enjoy this clever comedy for it's entire duration . 
the central premise behind the film is an inspired and promising one . 
bobby bowfinger ( martin ) , a cheapskate and small-time hollywood producer , has always dreamed of making a successful motion picture but has never attained the proper tools to do so . 
a new script , an alien invasion story entitled chubby rain , has caught bowfinger's eye . 
after confronting a big-name producer named jerry renfro ( robert downey jr . ) in a restaurant , an agreement is made to finance the movie . 
but first , bowfinger must get renowned action star kit ramsey ( eddie murphy ) to sign in on the project . 
kit turns the offer down immediately , but bowfinger still has the intent to shoot the film . 
after emptying out his life savings , the hapless producer tells the remaining cast and crew that ramsey is involved , and then prepares to film the movie without the star's knowledge . 
the actors confront ramsey on the street , saying their lines as hidden cameras peek through bushes to capture the footage . 
the unknowing star , who is terrified of aliens and being abducted , is brought to believe there is actually pod people after him . 
when the conditions become even more treacherous , bowfinger is forced to hire a kit ramsey look-alike named jiff ( also murphy ) , a sweet-natured dork who runs for coffee in-between shooting vital scenes . 
these include attempting a suicide run across an 8-lane freeway , and one of the `hot' scenes involving supporting actress daisy ( heather graham ) removing her blouse . 
bowfinger takes it's sweet time getting started , but when the plot switches into high gear , great things happen . 
certain scenes are so precisely executed , perfectly framing moments that are absolutely fall-down funny . 
no , hilarious . 
standouts include the chase through a parking garage in which ramsey , who's supposed to be being followed , keeps checking behind him to investigate a strange tapping noise ( it's actually bowfinger's dog in high heels ) . 
and just try not to laugh in the climactic kung-fu sequence , featuring jiff in an excerpt from another bowfinger classic entitled fake purse ninjas . 
while the entire 97-minutes of bowfinger isn't always on target , individual scenes may have you rolling in the aisles . 
masterful comedy director frank oz ( dirty rotten scoundrels , in and out ) , who has never made a bad movie , ensures a quality final product and is aided immensely by martin's sharp-edged script . 
however , the real on-screen star is eddie murphy . 
this is the actor's finest work since his breakthrough into the hollywood market in the early 80's . 
murphy excels at every corner , not only succeeding with presenting believable paranoia in the eyes of kit ramsey , but in creating a likable buffoon in jiff as well . 
these three talented comic minds have squeezed every morsel of potential out of this premise , and the reward is a virtually guaranteed helping of hearty laughs . 
steve martin generates the power behind bowfinger , but murphy fuels it . 
this is a summer-time comedy that , unlike something such as american pie and south park , doesn't break any rules . 
but it's still just as uproarious , or perhaps even more side-splitting than anything we've seen this season . 
the supporting cast , including christine baranski as a work-loving actress and jamie kennedy as the cameraman , all perform well within their limits . 
the only presence that demands real attention when placed next to martin or murphy is the beautiful heather graham , as the young film star who has plans to sleep her way to the top . 
graham , attempting to further her stardom after appearing as the new powers' girl in ap2 , displays a cheerful but naive persona that nicely corresponds with the wackiness of the screenplay . 
i wouldn't be caught dead buying a ticket for chubby rain , but watching how it all came about is certainly entertaining enough . 
pulp fiction , quentin tarantino's anxiously awaited and superb follow-up to reservoir dogs , is absolutely and without a doubt progressing as one of the most talked about , loved , and hated films of all-time . 
in all fairness , it should be noted that those who love this film greatly outnumber those who hate it . 
as if reservoir dogs wasn't perfect , tarantino went ahead and improved on perfection by creating pulp fiction , a fast-paced , hard talking , roller coaster ride of a movie that combines violence and extraordinary dialogue in a seemingly perfect way . 
every major character in this film is represented by a terrific acting performance by the actor . 
to begin with , the two hit men : vincent vega ( john travolta ) and jules winnfield ( samuel l . jackson ) . 
these two characters work together perfectly , and the performances by each actor are nearly perfect . 
travolta , in fact , is still trying to get out of the vincent vega role . 
if these two characters were not enough , there's the struggling boxer butch coolidge ( bruce willis ) , the two small-time criminals pumpkin ( tim roth ) and honey bunny ( amanda plummer ) , the big man in charge marsellus wallace ( ving rhames ) and his attractive young wife mia ( uma thurman ) , and the " problem solver " himself , the wolf ( harvey keitel ) . 
these are just the major characters . 
smaller roles , but equally terrific , are handed to jimmie ( quentin tarantino ) , a young married man who gets caught up in some serious gangster business , lance ( eric stoltz ) , the far-out drug dealer , as well as maynard ( duane whitaker ) and zed ( peter greene ) , two hillbillies who are the men " behind " ( no pun intended for those of you who have seen this ) a very disturbing scene towards the end of the film . 
the film interweaves three stories that , at first , seem to be nothing alike but later prove to be very critical to each other . 
the film begins with pumpkin and honey bunny in a small coffee shop discussing their recent robberies and hold-ups . 
the two quickly decide to hold up the coffee shop , unknowing of what lies ahead . 
after this , the film focuses for some time on vincent and jules and their hit man lifestyle . 
utilizing the films unforgettable dialogue , the two men discuss such things as hamburgers and foot massages before they bust into an apartment to terrorize the occupants . 
the two men were sent to the apartment to recover a mysterious briefcase for their boss , marsellus wallace . 
after basically toying with the men , especially the unfortunate brett ( frank whaley ) , vincent and jules complete their mission and recover the briefcase . 
this is not before a man jumps out from a bathroom with a . 357 
 " hand cannon " , shooting at the two gangsters . 
he somehow completely misses them , leading jules to cite divine intervention . 
this is also the basis for more of the now-famous tarantino dialogue . 
the film then shifts to focus on boxer butch coolidge and his boxing escapades . 
butch was ordered to take a fall in his latest fight , but when he does not , marsellus vows to find him , wherever he is , and make sure that butch is not able to enjoy his new fortune . 
vincent , meanwhile , has the honor of taking marsellus' wife , mia , out on a date while the big man is out of town . 
vincent , obviously , is rather nervous about this , especially after hearing the tale about a man who was thrown out of a window for supposedly giving mia a foot massage . 
after their date , which seems to rather smoothly , things take a turn for the worst at the hands of vincent's high-priced heroin , dubbed a " monster " by lance . 
each story continually progresses , and new and amazing events occur . 
eventually , the stories all meet each other in the end , with pumpkin and honey bunny holding up the restaurant , which happens to contain both vincent and jules . 
pulp fiction is definitely one of the best films of the decade , and possibly of all-time . 
along with its superb dialogue , action , writing , directing , and acting , this film will not only latch onto you , but it proves that it does not want to release you until it has sunk its claws completely into you . 
and with most fans of this movie , this is proved to be a rather easy task , although at times the graphic images , violence , and language may seem a bit overpowering . 
surely , quentin tarantino's fame was greatly escalated by this film , and he proves not to be one who will fade from existence very soon . 
i think the first thing this reviewer should mention is wether or not i am a fan of the x-files . 
first , let me assure you that no prior experience with the series is required to fully enjoy this movie . 
the producers are not stupid , making a movie just for fans of the series is not profitable . 
you have to reach for a larger audience . 
therefore , the movie is quite user-friendly . 
altough , non-fans will only fail to understand certain emotions behind the looks many characters exchange . 
but fear not , duchovny and another man later on provide more than adequate background info on what is going on . 
you will never feel as if you just walked in on the third act of some great opera . 
in any case , the answer is no . 
i am not a fan of the x-files , i only watch it when nothing else is on and i prefer millennium . 
however , since the fox network as been so kind as to air several key episodes for several weeks before the movie's opening weekend i took that opportunity to test the movie . 
i taped all of these episodes and watched them only after seing the movie , i am glad to report that i learned nothing new . 
everything you need to know is explained to the viewer by duchovny and others . 
i know i am going maybe a bit too far to make my point but everybody should get the chance to experience this movie . 
warning : major spoilers follow ! 
please do not read , to fully enjoy this movie you must not be able know what is coming , what exactly is over that hill and what that weird " hummm " sound is all about . 
you have been warned . 
the x-files is what a summer should be . 
exciting , scary , great special effects ( unlike other summer movies the effects do not take over the movie and are only there when it is really necessary ) and good performances . 
this is coming from a guy who thinks david duchovny is the human equivalent of a wooden plank . 
from start to finish , this movie does not let go of you . 
when i compare it with last summer's movies the best way to describe it would be : take the excitement and great score from face/off and the deadly use of sound from event horizon . 
this flick is scary , not in a b movie kind of way where you always know where and when the critter will jump at our heroes . 
in fact , the first time the critter in this movie makes an apperance it is totally out of the blue . 
you might as well bring ear plugs because this thing is louuuudd ! 
the last time a monster scared me that much was when i first saw aliens as a six year old kid . 
you know , when you are affraid to put you feet on the floor because the creature might be under the chair , or when you keep trying to cover your throat with your shirt ? 
so yeah , the x-files is scary . 
and guess what ? 
you never even have to see the monster but your imagination works overtime and it sure beats having to watch a flawed , computer generated , babyzilla , it looks like you could walk right through it not even scarier than your grandma in undies type of monster . 
do not think that the x-files is a monster movie . 
in fact , the creature is there for maybe three minutes total . 
no , the x-files is definately a mulder episode of the series . 
scully is at his side , of course , but gillian anderson gets maybe half the screen time . 
she has a couple of good scenes with duchovny , but she gets kidnapped during the last half hour of the movie so she does not get to do much . 
no , this is mulder's time in the spotlight . 
by now , you have heard of the scene where mulder " showers " independence day . 
if you have not then i will not spoil it for you , let's just say that due to recent events mulder should be " showering " godzilla instead . 
to those of you wondering if mulder discovers that the truth is indeed out there . . . who 
cares ! ? 
if he did find it the series would over anyway so what are you complaining about ? 
the dialogue in interesting and the director is marvelous . 
the camera is almost always looking over the shoulder of our heroes so we feel as if we are right there with them when they open a door or climb a hill . 
the script is spotless , every thing that happens happens for a purpose . 
if you are confused by something , do not worry because it will all become clear later on but , and i cannot stress this enough , pay attention ! ! ! 
unlike most summer movies , the dialogue is twice as important as the effects . 
miss one vital piece of information and , like most people who talk during movies , you will go home and tell all your friends how this movie made no sense . 
also , to those people who need to go to the bathroom during movies . . . don't ! 
the person who watched the movie with me had to go twice and twice she missed an important conversation . 
there is no time to take a breather between scenes because , again unlike most summer movies ( godzilla anybody ? 
 ) the x-files does not need to fill scenes between the suspense and the action with useless subplots , every scene is crucial and serves a purpose . 
who needs to see the blond chiouaoua have a " big emotional scene " between godzilla attacks ? 
so far this summer i have seen only one movie who ranks higher on my list of movies i'd recommend and that is the truman show but it only wins by a nose . 
but the truman show is not what i would call a summer movie , the x-files is . 
what more do you ask from a summer movie other than the chance to be excited ? 
cool effects ? 
it's good some . 
pulse pounding ? 
hell yes ! 
strangely enough , i think that fans of the series will hate this movie while non-fans will have a good time . 
it does not provide answers to the show's many questions , the status quo remains nearly the same and , no , mulder and scully do not get together . 
rating : four and a half out of five stars for the best movie yet this summer , several jump right out of your seat thrills , many " whoah , i never saw that one coming ! " 
moments , four " holy shit , where the hell did that come from " and one heck of an ending . 
you may wonder where this movie lost half a star . 
well , i swore never to give a movie the full five stars so i had to find something about the in his ice truck , the tracks it leaves in the snow behind him go on for several miles but then they just stop . 
it's pretty obvious the film's makers drove the truck for several miles to give the appearance that mulder had been driving for a long time , but in the end it looks like mulder just dropped from the sky and started driving . 
i know it already opened in december , but i finally got around to seeing rushmore last weekend , and it was one of those rare oppritunites that i got to leave the theatre feeling proud about paying the expensive ticket price . 
as the final scene closed out in happy slow-mo fashion , i felt happy to have been priveleged enough to watch such a good display of filmmaking . 
jason schwartzman , his face oddly intriguing behind those large braces and glasses , steals the show as max fischer , the most well known rushmore academy student who gets terrible grades , but compensates for it by organizing most of the school's clubs and organizations ( i . e . 
the fencing team and writing and producing school plays ) and often pulling outrageous stunts , one that eventually earns him an expulsion . 
this stunt , building an aquarium on the school's baseball diamond , is a plot to steal the heart of widowed elementary teacher rosemary cross ( olivia williams ) . 
he funds this aquarium with the help of millionare herman blume ( a very oscarworthy bill murray ) , who eventually finds himself falling in love with miss cross . 
rosemary and herman begin dating-and the fun begins ; herman and max go at it head to head in a battle for miss cross . 
herman manages to destroy max's bike , while max cuts herman's brakes , and it goes on like this . 
but eventually max realizes he is too young for miss cross , and he can't stand in the way of two people in love . 
the academy of arts & sciences really messed up this year ; they completely overlooked rushmore ( and , if you ask me , it wasn't an accident ) . 
it maybe wasn't best picture material , but it certainly deserved a screenplay nod ( instead of elizabeth ) , and bill murray's absense from the ballot is a complete snub . 
the entire mood of the film is one reason it is so good ; at one point it's fun , and the next scene can turn serious and dramatic . 
the cinematography gives the movie an important feeling , as well . 
i hope rushmore can overcome its' oscar snubs , and be enjoyed by intelligent film goers . 
capsule : this is a film that avoids easy answers . 
wilhelm furtwangler , then the world's greatest orchestra conductor stayed in germany and cooperated with the nazis . 
what were his views , was he a war criminal or a secret resistance fighter ? 
how much did he know about crimes against humanity ? 
the us government investigated him after the war and this film is a dramatization of that investigation . 
 , high +2 ( -4 to +4 ) 
in my opinion one of the best films of the last few years is istvan szabo's sunshine , a film that covers the fortunes of a jewish hungarian family under the reigns of three different regimes , hungarian aristocrats , nazis , and communists . 
szabo's follow-up film , a german production , is much more limited in scope . 
it is about the post-war investigation of who criminally supported the nazis and who opposed them . 
ronald harwood's screenplay ambiguously looks at the investigation of a great classical music conductor who stayed on in germany when the nazis took power and became the most popular conductor of the third reich . 
maj . steve arnold ( played by harvey keitel ) has been assigned by his superiors to investigate wilhelm furtwangler ( stellan skarsgard ) , perhaps europe's greatest classical music conductor . 
when other artists fled germany , furtwangler remained behind and conducted for the hitler and his henchmen . 
after the war is over arnold assigned to interview furtwangler and members of his orchestra and if appropriate to prosecute him for war crimes . 
he secretly is told by his commanding officer to find furtwangler guilty . 
from there we follow him and learn a little about arnold and something about furtwangler and his orchestra . 
as he interviews members of the wartime orchestra arnold starts noticing odd peculiarities that may or may not point to a conspiracy against his investigation . 
there is a certain sameness to the responses that he is getting . 
perhaps any cooperation he is getting has been in some ways managed . 
if so , perhaps he can never come to the truth . 
in large part the film is about mind games that arnold uses to manipulate his interviewees and especially furtwangler . 
where the script has problems is that in the end it is so ambiguous . 
it has no obvious resolution and not much of a final act . 
when it is over whether anything has been established is open to interpretation . 
perhaps that is better than so many films that make it all to obvious what the audience should believe , but it is like watching a murder mystery and never finding out who the killer is . 
we are given clues to something but they are never tied up . 
in the end we just know more about both arnold and furtwangler . 
the film is basically a stage play . 
the visual is not very important . 
corners are cut visually including touches like filling windows with photographs to avoid having to shoot on location . 
as with a stage play , what this film centers on the dialog , and that is intriguing . 
i rate the film an 8 on the 0 to 10 scale and a high +2 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
[there is one piece of sloppiness few people but me would notice . 
at one point we clearly see arnold's desk calendar say " jan 16 tues . " 
a quick mental calculation told me that combination could occur in 1945 and then not again until 1951 . 
the events had to take place in 1946 or 1947 . 
a possible date could be obtained from any world almanac . ] 
 " gattaca " represents a solid breakthrough in the recent onslaught of science-fiction films -- it's a genre picture that doesn't rely on alien creatures or loud explosions to tell its story . 
the movie takes place in a futuristic world where babies are created through genetic tampering and not sexual reproduction . 
this allows parents to predetermine what kind of eye color , intelligence and life span they'd like for their child , and also eliminates most pesky chances of health defects . 
those made the old-fashioned way are labeled as " in-valids " and confined to the lower rung of society . 
vincent freeman ( ethan hawke ) is one such person , born not too long before the genetic process was perfected and forced to grow up in a home with his petrie dish-molded younger brother anton . 
fed up with being second-rate and enchanted by dreams of one day traveling through space , vincent leaves home and takes a janitorial position at the gattaca aerospace corporation . 
everyday , he watches as " superior " folk make his fantasy a reality . 
determined to do the same , vincent meets a dna broker ( tony shalhoub in a funny cameo ) who sells fake identities to in-valids . 
his counterpart for this scam is jerome morrow ( jude law ) , an ex-athlete left paralyzed in an accident and confined to a wheelchair for life . 
for a price and the promise of a caretaker , jerome supplies vincent with his identity , as well as blood , skin and urine samples for all of those pesky on-the-job tests and physical examinations -- this future is one where employees clock in by pricking their fingers instead of punching a time card . 
because of his drastically improved status , vincent is quickly propelled to a high position in gattaca , and catches the eye of comely co-worker irene ( uma thurman ) on the way -- obsessed with her own minor heart defect , she's enamored by his flawless persona she doesn't know is a lie . 
but on the figurative eve of his upcoming planetary departure , the mission director is murdered . 
two ardent detectives ( alan arkin and billy bathgate's loren dean ) determine the killer is on the inside of gattaca , and the sole clue they find at the crime scene -- one of vincent's eyelashes -- threatens to blow vincent's cover and derail his goal . 
even if " gattaca " were dramatically empty , it would still boast a sublime set of production credentials -- the film's look is dazzling without ever being flashy . 
first-time director/writer andrew niccol ( he also wrote the screenplay for the upcoming jim carrey drama " the truman show " ) demonstrates a keen eye for the stylish ; his collaboration with cinematographer slawomir idziak , production designer jan roelfs and costume designer colleen atwood result in a sophisticated composition that emanates classy , retro ambiance . 
an opening credits sequence -- where skin , nail and hair fragments fall in slow-motion through a colored camera lens -- displays these combined talents uncannily . 
niccol even utilizes voice-over narration ( a device almost always poorly-employed ) in an effective way . 
when it comes to acting , the movie is also flawless . 
ethan hawke does magnificent work , proving his ability to carry a film and reaffirming his enormously high charisma level . 
his chemistry with thurman is a bit on the icy side , but needfully so , adding to the setting's clinical chill . 
as the bitter jerome , jude law has a star-making presence , and it's his scenes with hawke that give the movie its fine emotional core . 
in " gattaca " 's series of final shots , the fates of vincent and jerome are superimposed over each other , and the effect is sad , lyrical and beautiful . 
things get a little strange as the movie nears its climax , when vincent's relationship with his brother comes back into view . 
the big dramatic culmination is a swim race , which is somewhat silly albeit beautifully photographed . 
still , the single most surprising aspect of gattaca is its use of backdrop -- it's successful sci-fi without showy special effects , it's a crisp thriller with character-driven thrills , it's a futuristic fable without blood and guts . 
even its murder mystery is relegated to a secondary subplot , ensuring that a smart story about smart people and smart science takes center stage . 
although it's portrayal of the upcoming century is grim , " gattaca " serves up one of the most thought-provoking societal forecasts ever depicted on film . 
there was a huge crowd - so many over 100 people could not be admitted - at a premiere screening of " the nephew " ( first screening with a major general audience admittance ) . 
this was a movie premiere at the santa barbara international film festival . 
pierce brosnan ( 007 ) , produced his first movie with beau st . clair . 
it was a constantly mind-moving and personal movie with lovely scenes of ireland . 
chad ( hill harper , beloved ) is a cute 17 year old mixed race ( african american and irish ) nephew , who's irish mother died . 
he comes " back to ireland " , living with the curmudgeon uncle , tony egan ( donal mccann ) . 
he meets pierce brosnan's character , mr . o'brady ( or just brady ) , because he falls in love with the beautiful daughter . 
there are many scenes ( ah , character scenes ) to laugh at , others pull some tears . 
the three mentioned above were at the premiere in the flesh , with the director eugene brady . 
after the movie they took questions . 
the movie was very good , it not fantastic . 
the nephew has not been " picked up " in north america but has been in the rest of the world . 
the nephew is generation secrecy of a " titanic " proportion . 
let's hope the rest of america will be able to see the nephew . 
contact given in the program guide : " print source : irish dream source , inc . , tel : ( 310 ) 449-3411 " 
available in an all new video edition from arrow entertainment ( $29 . 95 ) , with an introduction by david carradine , written & produced by wayne j . keeley 
f . w . murnau's career ended sadly and prematurely . 
the german director of such classics as " sunrise " and " the last laugh " died in a car accident shortly after signing a deal to make american pictures at paramount . 
murnau was reportedly a giant man , well over six feet , a towering figure probably incapable of anything but a grand entrance . 
which brings us to " nosferatu : a symphony of horror " : surely he felt a kinship with his title character , the looming vampire embodied by intimidating max schreck ; in one of the most indelible images in film history , silent or otherwise , schreck rises from his grave , gnarled hands outstretched , and he's so big that part of his head is cropped by the top of the frame . 
the plot of " nosferatu . . . " 
is lifted--unauthorized--from bram stoker's " dracula " . 
the british hutter is an eager real estate man assigned to visit and discuss future living arrangements with count orlock of transylvania . 
he leaves behind girlfriend emily , only to discover orlock's secret--he's a bloodsucker--and struggle to return to england before the nosferatu reaches his lady love . 
in addition to schreck's performance , the cinematography and effects are outstanding . 
arrow video's digitally remastered version of the classic is something of a mixed-coffin . 
the cover art features a red-tinted , hairy , goateed vampire staring straight at you , his fanged mouth agape , while the bodies of two sexy , writhing women entice you below . 
trouble is , murnau's monster is pale-faced , bald , pointy-eared , and non-goateed , and there isn't a single sexy , writhing woman to be found in his movie . 
this sort of misleading packaging makes little sense when one recalls the countless number of ghouslish scenes in the film from which cool cover art could have been extracted . 
additionally , notifying the viewer that this is in fact murnau's film seems like afterthought since his name and the genuine title are written in small print below our goateed vampire . 
that said , a good mastering job has been performed on the film itself . 
the original elements are not in the best condition--non-studio silents were unlucky in their preservation-- so we're still dealing with a slightly washed out , scratched , jittering image . 
but at least the day and night scenes are tinted sepia and blue , respectively , especially helpful to an audience who may question nosferatu's waltzing around during what seems like sunlight ( it took a lot of light to expose stock in the twenties ) . 
the title cards have been redone , and they are legible , accurate , and digitally altered to flicker--a very nice touch . 
 ( even the opening copyright warning flickers ! ) 
the score has been replaced by music from type o negative , a hard-rock group , arguably gothic , and their songs underscore the film nicely-- certainly the coolest video a band can ask for . 
when our hero , hutter , first steps onto the doomed carriage to count orlock's castle , we hear a well-timed " now you're dead ! " 
from lead singer peter steele . 
david carradine makes an appropriately vampiric host ; he fiddles with a blade and cane while introducing the film . 
after the feature , which runs about 63 minutes , is included a new music video from type o negative , the black-and-white fang-fest " black no . 1 " . 
of course , " nosferatu : a symphony of horror " is the main attraction , and while my latest viewing raised questions ( why is the woman called emily in the title cards but " mina " --as bram stoker called her--in hutter's letters ? , for instance ) , it made me realize how much this movie has inspired and been stolen from . 
coppola's 1992 " bram stoker's dracula " owes a great stylistic debt to murnau's masterpiece , but the one thing it couldn't thieve was the original's abstract charms . 
this latest incarnation from arrow will probably- -like the rescored " metropolis " a few years back--turn a silent film into more palpable entertainment for the latest generation of film freaks . 
when i left the theater after seeing david lynch's " lost highway , " i remarked to a fellow movie-goer , " i feel like someone just sucked my brains out through my nose and put them back in through my ears . " 
in his first feature film in five years , lynch delivers a film second only to his debut picture " eraserhead " on the weirdness scale . 
you won't " know " what happened when it's over , though there are certainly enough clues with which to make some reasonable guesses . 
it is difficult to describe the plot of this film , because it depends partly on how you interpret it . 
i can , however , describe what we see on the screen : l . a . jazz saxophonist fred madison ( bill pullman ) and his wife renee ( patricia arquette ) , whom he clearly suspects of infidelity , receive a series of videotapes apparently filmed inside their house while they were asleep . 
they are , naturally enough , more than a little frightened and confused , and it doesn't help matters any when " mystery man " ( robert blake ) approaches fred at a party and proceeds to call himself on the telephone at the madisons' house in a scene that is at once hilarious and unnerving . 
the next morning , fred finds another videotape which , to his ( and our ) surprise , shows him brutally murdering renee in their bedroom . 
he is convicted of her murder and sent to death row , where he inexplicably disappears one night and is replaced by a young mechanic named pete dayton ( balthazar getty ) . 
the perplexed prison officials release dayton , whose life begins to intersect with fred in a number of ways - most notably his affair with alice wakefield ( arquette again ) , a blonde who is otherwise renee's spitting image , and another encounter with the mystery man . 
i would be giving away a little too much to reveal any more , but suffice it to say that lynch doesn't offer any neat wrap ? ups , nor does he put a lid on the metaphysical confusion : the cinematic demons of " lost highway " are out in full force from beginning to end . 
this description might make " lost highway " sound like a giddy exercise in haywire surrealism , but in fact , while there are traces of lynch's weird sense of humor , this film is anything but giddy most of the time . 
on the contrary , lost highway is a dark and perplexing mystery that takes lynch's previous excursions into murder and intrigue one step farther . 
the film does not revolve around a character investigating a mystery ; rather , the character * is * the mystery . 
there are recurring and at times deeply disturbing images of suspicion , distrust , and infidelity thoughout the film that seem to indicate a deluded , fractured psyche at the root of all the bizarre goings-on here . 
we , the audience , are left to puzzle out whose psyche it is that is driving this ( probably fred's , in my opinion ) and what , in that case , the other characters and events are meant to represent . 
all of this proceeds , appropriately , in lynch's typically slow-paced , idiosyncratic style . 
as is often the case , lynch relies on sound , imagery , and mood more than on dialogue and action to tell his story , and in " lost highway " it works perfectly . 
there are scenes when the camera lingers on fred's blank expression as he drifts uncomfortably down a hallway , or on his pained face in his prison cell while the haunting strains of this mortal coil's " song to the siren " can be heard faintly in the background ; nothing is technically " happening " in these scenes , yet they present a vivid picture of a man losing his grip just as effective as , if not more so than , the hysterical screaming found in most movie presentations of insanity . 
lynch's direction and director of photography pete deming's darkly lit cinematography serve to create a nearly suffocating atmosphere of tension and fear that are exactly what is needed for this story . 
well , most of the time , anyway - i have to admit that i was a bit bored at times during the section of the film with pete dayton as the protgaonist , which is less inherently interesting and mostly keeps the viewer's attention because of its tie-ins to the original mystery . 
the main characters in this " reality " - dayton ( a well-meaning but none too intelligent 24-year-old ) , a sleazy gangster ( who for some reason has two names but otherwise is pretty much a stock character ) , and his porn-star girlfriend ( the blond arquette ) - are nothing you couldn't find in any of the two dozen " pulp fiction " wannabes ; fortunately , the reappearance of the mystery man as well as some other typically lynchian elements , such as the strained , awkward conversations between pete and his parents , help to preserve the film's spooky , unnerving tone during this stretch . 
lynch's typically graphic and disturbing portrayals of fringe sexuality , while relevant to the themes of jealousy and adultery , are also somewhat overdone here . 
it's not exactly exploitative - like almost everything else in this film , the sex is thoroughly weird and creepy and is unlikely to provide any cheap lurid thrills - as much as it is unnecessary and frankly kind of dumb by the seventh or eighth time arquette takes her clothes off . 
that said , these minor flaws don't prevent " lost highway " from attaining its place as one of the darkest , most unsettling films to hit the screens in recent years . 
it is a one-way ride down the lost highway of a disturbed mind , and as such it is gripping , intense , and brilliantly effective . 
melvin udall is a heartless man . 
he spends his days inside of his spacious manhattan apartment writing romance novels . 
it also seems that melvin will never change . 
one day he dines ar his favorite restaurant , and is a little too mean to his normal waitress ( the only waittress that will serve him ) , carol ( played to perfection by a lovely and sexy helen hunt . ) 
she threatens not to serve him if he doesn't shut up about her asthmatic son . he does shut up . 
to make matters considerably worse , melvin has obsessive compulsive disorder . 
one day his gay artist neighbor simon ( greg kinear , of talk soup fame , in an oscar-worthy role ) 's dog threatens to dismiss himself at melvon's door . 
the dog meets the garbage chute . 
soon simon is sadly beaten by thieveing burglars , and ray ( cuba gooding , jr . ) , simon's agent , takes the dog , verdell , to melvin , so that melvin can dogsit him . 
and through the dog and a rather heartwrenching car trip that involves simon , carol , and himself , melvin learns to emerge from his cantakerous shell . 
jack nicholson gives yet another oscar-caliber performance as the film's cynical lead , and is back at work , not playing a goofy u . s . president or a comic book villian , but instead playing jack nicjolson , and playing him full force . 
all of this adds up to this year's funniest comedy , a creative , witty , and scathing film from james l . brooks , and brooks gets award-worthy performances from the entire cast . 
a winner in every aspect , and a truly delicious slice of cyncial life . 
i'm not really sure what to think about " crash . " 
on the surface , it's a cold , boring , unerotic porn with name starts , a name director , and some cool camerawork . 
i mean , it left me completely bored , unsatisfied , and generally kinda weirded out . 
but then again , not every film's supposed to leave you entertained . 
 " crash " is structured to play like a porn flick , but with significantly more plot and dialogue . 
while we see several extremely taboo scenes of weirdo sex , we also have a skimpy little plot going on ( mostly towards the beginning ) , and maybe just a hair of characterization . 
not to mention the acting is generally pretty good , and we don't really see a lot of the actors completely exposed . 
but what makes it supremely different from a porn is the fact that this is not an erotic experience . 
this film does not posess the erotic hypnotism of " henry and june " or the just plain horniness of , say , " deep throat " ( not that i've seen it ) . 
if one was to be made completely hot by this film , it would probably mean they were also into the whole " auto eroticism " thing . 
the film leaves you cold erotically ( and maybe in many other ways ) , but what it does is present a group of people who live on the edge . 
the film opens up on a woman , catherine ( deborah kara ungar , of " the game " ) , pressing her bare breast up against a car in a public air hangar . 
suddenly , a man enters the frame and begins to take her from behind ( the film doesnt' show all this though , even if it is nc-17 ) . 
the next scene has a film director , james ( james spader ) , having sex with a camera woman ( alice poon ) in an office on the highly-populated set of his movie . 
the next scene has the two coming together , revealing to us that they're husband and wife , and them sharing in one another's escapades . 
while the two are arguably freaky people , we at least know they love to live on the edge . 
soon afterwards , james is driving down the road at night , reclessly of course ( he's reading something ) , when he drifts into the other lane , and then hits another car face on . 
james is not killed , but the passenger in the other car flies into his seat ( obviously dying ) , leaving the driver , helen remington ( holly hunter - in a porn ? ) , also alive . 
the two go through therapy together , and when getting out , they run into eachother again . 
when james gives her a ride home , they almost get into another accident , and immeadiately afterwards , they go to an unbusy parking lot , and have a little quickie , as they were aroused by the accident . 
you wouldn't think there would be many people who shared this same kind of fetish , but they run into a freaky guy named vaughan ( elias kosteas ) and his crutch-carrying girlfriend , gabrielle ( rosanna arquette ) , who are also into it . 
vaughan is into living on the edge as they are , but he takes it to another level : he loves to recreate famous car crashes . 
in one scene , he and a friend , colin seagrave ( peter macneill ) recreate james dean's car crash without any padding or safety belts , and suffer some concussions , but nevertheless get a rush ( and the attention of the police ) . 
soon , these five are all having sex with one another , be it straight , gay , or lesbian sex . 
while this is admittingly all a bit comical ( the film is almost like a black comedy ) , the film does do a pretty awesome portrayal of people who's main fetish is living on the edge . 
i'm sure somewhere there are people who get aroused by car accidents , but i personally don't see a connection between car crashes and sex . 
the main connection cronenberg shows us that both give a definite rush . 
his car crash scenes are quick and exciting mini-masterpieces : we're at first not sure if they'll take place , but everytime it looks like it may occur , we gasp . 
then when it happens , we hold our breath . 
the same thing happens with sex , although not in the same fashion . 
these people are merely taking it to another level . 
the only problem with the film is that it's a tad redundant . 
a normal porn lasts from an hour to an hour and a half . 
this goes on for about 100 minutes , and it just seems a little too long . 
the sex and car crashes are far between one another , and the time between them are a tad on the boring side . 
there's no characterization , although it could definitely be argued , that hey , it's a porn , and we're not here to sympathize . 
but still , they coulda cut it down a bit . 
but the film is saved with its presentation , as well as some other elements . 
the atmosphere is very dark and forboding , creating a kind of cool weird feeling . 
and there are several scenes are just amazing . 
one scene has catherine and james having sex , while she softly asks him questions about being with a man , which sounds almost erotic the way she says it . 
a sequence involving one character's death is filled with all the edgy disjointment that the film needs . 
and the final shot is shot perfectly , creating an image of a car crash , and a couple having sex in front of it , despite the fact that she's wounded . 
the acting is also pretty good , especially for what is almost a porn ( ousting linda lovelace as best actress in a porn ) . 
while james spader is pretty boring ( he's usually pretty intense ) , deborah kara ungar is amazing . 
she speaks all her words in almost zombie-like hushes , and when she's having sex , she has a blank look on her face , not showing the viewer whether she's enjoying it or not . 
in one scene , she actually looks dead while someone is having sex with her . 
holly hunter , who gets extra credit just for appearing in something like this , is pretty good , and so is rosanna arquette ( who adds a kinda cool kinkiness to her role ) . 
but the film is stolen by elias kosteas who plays his character so intensely that he almost upstages everyone . 
he often speaks as he is out of breath , showing a definite affinity for his way of life . 
he has a great deal of energy in several scenes , especially one scene where he's taking photographs of a picture , and a later scene where he's getting a freaky tatoo . 
he and spader share sexual chemistry in several scenes , foreshadowing a later scene . 
kosteas is a little known actor ( his biggest role was casey jones in " teenage mutant ninja turtles " ) , but here he shows a deniro-like presence , hinting that he's capable of bigger roles . 
while i hardly enjoyed " crash , " it's still a pretty intriguing portrayal of a group of people who , if the exist , are some of the strangest and most bizarre people in the world . 
these people are able to share a rush between two completely different entities , and the film , which doesn't exactly pain them in a negative light , is sucessful in bringing them to light , even if it leaves the viewer unnerved and generally freaked out . 
despite the hardcore nature of the film and the subsequent nc-17 rating ( there's also an r-rated version , but i wouldn't even go near that thing ) , anyone looking for a quick turn-on should just rent a regular porno . 
the first thing you notice about this movie is that it's cold . 
placed in minnesota and north dakota during the winter , many of the scenes take place outside with long scenes of snow-covered ground against a background of white . 
just what we need as bloomington struggles out of the endless long cold night . 
as with most coen brothers films , this features outlandish characters in nefarious schemes , each of which works out in the oddest way possible . 
a car salesman hires a couple of hoods to kidnap his wife so that he can collect the ransom from her father . 
along the way everything that can possibly go wrong does . 
in brief scenes of vicious violence , people get shot through the head , in the back , face , chest and various other areas of the anatomy . 
there is also one of the most unpleasant body disposal scenes yet seen on the screen . 
remarkably enough , most of the movie is played for laughs . 
even more remarkably , it works . 
the only likable person in the film is the very pregnant sheriff ( frances mcdormand ) who hunts down the killers while eating at every possible opportunity . 
with every good film the audience gains new knowledge . 
here you learn _two_ things . 
everyone in minnesota speaks in an annoying whining accent that would drive you crazy . 
and don't do violent illegal business with low-life amoral degenerate scum-sucking losers . 
oh yeah , if you get shot in the face , using a brightly decorated napkin to stop the bleeding just makes you look goofy . 
plot : odin is a great high school basketball player . 
he's dating a hot girl and the coach loves his ass . 
in fact , the coach even admits to having fatherly feelings towards him . 
unfortunately , the coach's real son , hugo , isn't too pleased to hear that . 
in fact , he doesn't like hearing about any of odin's triumphs , as they generally supersede his own . 
so what does he set out to do ? 
well , let's just say that he starts to mess with people's heads and one thing leads to another thing which leads to . . . well , 
you'll see . 
critique : a very powerful , thoroughly depressing , well-acted " non-teen " movie starring a bunch of teens . 
credit director tim blake nelson for creating a modern day version of this shakespearian classic , set in a realistic high school environment , with the basketball championships as the backdrop and an impending sense of doom as it core . 
you also have to give it up to all of the actors in this film , who turn over some very convincing performances , taking you through all of their characters' ups and downs . 
hartnett especially should be applauded for taking on such a despicable character , a dude who you just want to grab by the throat and beat the shit out of ( sign of a good actor , if you ask me ) . 
phifer also comes to play in this movie , with a nice blend of charisma , fear , love and anger spread over his character . 
i was always on this guy's side and definitely felt sorry for him as things moved along . 
julia stiles was also good , but her character wasn't much different from others that she's played recently . 
i was however very surprised with martin sheen's showing , since i hadn't taken him too seriously as an actor over the past few years . 
his character is definitely over-the-top in this film , but i appreciated his fervor , his rage , his ultimate and blind desire to win above all . 
a great example of a workaholic man who cannot see the trees from the forest . 
i did have a few reservations about the movie though . 
first of all , what was with all of the gangsta hip-hop music used in pretty much every other scene transition ? 
it was cute at first , but became a little too obvious and annoying after a few times . 
the film was also edited pretty choppily . . . like 
some scenes were cut out and no one " cleaned it up " afterwards . 
i also didn't like the fact that hartnett's character , the man behind much of the nastiness that goes down in this film , was infallible . 
in other words , pretty much everything he says or asks of someone , happens automatically and without any goofups . 
i mean , i know the guy is smart and all , but i would have appreciated a little more " realism " under some of the circumstances . 
but overall , the movie will devastate you . 
it's not a " fun date movie " . 
it's not a movie about the high school basketball team and how its black star falls for the white girl from the other side of the tracks . 
it's about jealousy , love , envy , fury , passion , revenge and pretty much any other negative thought that's ever passed through your head . 
is it worth seeing ? 
oh , most definitely ! 
 ( pun intended ) it's a moving picture with great performances , no shakespearian speak ( thank you , god ! ) and an outstanding directorial job by nelson . 
the final scene alone is enough to send a massive chill down your spine , and i was especially impressed with the director's choice of music near the end . 
in fact , the whole sequence was quite reminiscent of the final showdown scene from taxi driver , and i guess that's saying something right there . 
where's joblo coming from ? 
10 things i hate about you ( 7/10 ) - election ( 7/10 ) - hamlet ( 6/10 ) - love's labor's lost ( 8/10 ) - natural born killers ( 9/10 ) - save the last dance ( 7/10 ) - shakespeare in love ( 5/10 ) 
defending your life is an imaginative vision of the afterlife from the twisted mind of writer-director albert brooks , who also stars in the comedy . 
after dying in a car crash , on his birthday of all days , brooks wakes up in judgement city , a satirical rendition of purgatory where higher beings evaluate the lives of newly deceased earthlings . 
brooks has five days to convince two judges that he's worthy of passing on to higher plains of existence . 
enter rip torn as the slick lawyer who defends brooks in court against prosecutor lee grant . 
during his " trial , " brooks must view episodes of his life on a movie screen , and these scenes are both hysterically funny and painfully poignant . 
it's impossible to resist chuckling ( and cringing ) at brooks as he and torn try to explain away his cowardly behavior on earth . 
torn , in particular , is in vintage comic form , and he walks away with the picture . 
the movie also features meryl streep , appealing as the love-interest , and shirley maclaine , who pops up in a hilarious cameo . 
while the film is uneven , many of its gags are price less . 
take , for example , the food in judgement city : it's always the most delicious you've ever tasted . . . 
and it's also calorie-free--so chow down ! 
jake kasdan , son of one of the best screenwriters around , breaks into filmmaking by writing and directing this hard-to-categorize detective story : part mystery , part comedy , part character study and part romance . 
for the most part , kasdan manages to combine the genres successfully and create a captivating film . 
daryl zero ( bill pullman ) is a modern day sherlock holmes . 
the parallel is present down to his love of music ( though zero plays the guitar rather than the violin ) , and his addiction to drugs ( amphetamines , rather than morphine ) . 
he even titles his cases with such sherlockian epigrams as the case of the mismatched shoelaces , the case about the man who lied about his age , or the case of the hired gun who made way way too many mistakes . 
however zero's observance of the fine art of detachment , though it makes him a brilliant private investigator , makes him somewhat of a self-imposed outcast in society . 
he could do nothing without the legwork of his trusty assistant dr . watson , i mean steve arlo ( ben stiller ) . 
arlo is not happy with his job . 
he is thrilled to be around zero's brilliance , but his bizarre behavior , and strange requests , are frustrating to the former lawyer . 
and they're even more so to his girlfriend , jess ( angela featherstone ) , who is fed up that her boyfriend's boss means more to arlo than her . 
this is the situation when a new case comes knocking . 
gregory stark ( ryan o'neill ) hires zero to find his lost keys . 
it seems that he kept a safety deposit box key on the ring , and the box apparently contains some incriminating evidence . 
now , stark is being blackmailed , and needs to reclaim his key before the nightmare can end . 
to solve this case , zero reluctantly crawls out of his shell . 
however , this is when he is vulnerable . . . and 
this time he falls for charms of a wily paramedic , gloria sullivan ( kim dickens ) , who may be involved in the blackmail scheme . 
for the first time , zero has to question his own objectivity , as he finds his client less and less sympathetic . 
zero effect is weakest in its obviously " wacky " scenes depicting daryl zero's odd behavior . 
such scenes might be appropriate in an out-and-out satire , making zero an ace ventura-ish character . 
however , there's a much meatier movie in here . . . it just takes a while to get out . 
that's not to say that there's not a place for humor in this film . 
in fact , some of the best scenes are ben stiller's wonderfully underplayed comic moments of absolute disgust and frustration with his employer . 
however , the over-the-top scenes never quite gel with the rest of the film , and they aren't funny enough to stand on their own . 
once the investigation is underway , however , zero's brilliance really begins to shine . 
his lightning quick inferences are as fascinating as many of sherlock's own . 
as the mystery begins to unfold , zero's deductions lead the plot in interesting directions , but never lose the viewer . 
zero effect works well during its romantic scenes as well . 
zero's relationship with gloria is low-key , but it hits all the right notes . 
however , we are always kept distant from gloria's character . 
she's given plenty of development , but we never understand what she is thinking . 
perhaps that may be intentional : to place the audience in zero's zone of detachment . 
but , on the whole , it is frustrating . 
bill pullman , when he's not spacing out , creates a vibrant character in daryl zero . 
there's one moment when zero briefly connects to the world which he has managed to detach from for many years , and it is shockingly moving . . . expressing a seriousness that heretofore was unassociated with the character , but one which fits in well . 
and , although it is sometimes hard to take a detective called " zero " seriously , it is at this moment that the viewer understands the meaning behind the name . 
although zero effect is a bit awkward in places , it is a strong debut for kasdan , and shows great promise . 
well i'll be damned , what a most excellent surprise . 
not to be confused with the campy and far inferior 1988 remake starring ex-porn star traci lords , this more recent attempt at remaking the 1950's drive-in schlockfest not of this earth is a real gem and was quite possibly the best sci-fi flick of 1995 . 
once again , b-movie king roger corman is behind this effort ( he directed the original ) but this time he appears only in the role of executive producer . 
the rest of the crew and cast are relative unknowns . 
it seems criminal that the film was released direct to video in most countries , because it's an absolute must-see for sci-fi fans and a treat for anyone who enjoys decently acted and written thrillers with a kooky bent . 
the plot in brief . 
paul johnson ( michael york ) is an alien posing as an eccentric millionaire who , though needing to kill people to live , is visiting earth for far from selfish reasons . 
his race is dying of a mysterious blood disease and he desperately is trying to find a cure , the key of which lies in the blood of humans . 
he visits and soon puts under his spell the respected blood physician dr . rochelle , whom he hypnotises into doing secret research on his behalf . 
he also has the doctor convince smart and sexy nurse amanda ( elizabeth barondes ) to move in with johnson as his private nurse so as to give him the blood transfusions which he constantly requires . 
but before long , amanda and johnson's sleazy chauffeur release that johnson is a lot more than just eccentric . 
i must admit , my first glimpse of the video cover for not of this earth was not encouraging . 
british actor michael york has appeared in some real stinkers in past few decades , a far cry from the quality fare of his younger days such as caberat ( 1972 ) . 
but his performance here as an alien in human disguise is nothing short of outstanding . 
the weird twitches and bizarre modes of speech , the dapper clothes and cool spectacles , the unexpected pathos which he invests in his character . 
york is by turns hilarious , menacing and tragic . 
this is a tour-de-force and quite simply the best performance i've seen from him . 
and while obviously made on a modest budget , the film boasts enormous strengths . 
the casting is spot on , the acting is terrific and the script is intelligent , witty and consistently engaging , cleverly updating the original . 
the balance of horror and humour is just about perfect , a marked contrast to the earlier remake from 1988 . 
the film doesn't drag for a second of its 90 minute running time thanks to tight editing and the sure hand of little-known director terrance h . winkless . 
and it doesn't matter one bit that the special effects are cheesy - this is schlock after all , even if it is high class schlock . 
in fact my only criticism of the film is that things get a tad weak towards the end . 
tighter direction could have given the climax more urgency and a few of the characters act rather illogically given their life-threatening situation . 
but these are minor complaints . 
just see it . 
not of this earth is one of the biggest sci-fi surprises in years . 
and michael york : in one cool swoop you've made yourself a b-movie legend , dude . 
in 1998 , director brett ratner and his stars , jackie chan and chris tucker , breathed new life into the buddy-action film genre with the cross-cultural " rush hour " - to the tune of about $250 million . 
you don't mess with success , so the team is back again , and better , in " rush hour 2 . " 
the combo of the terrific physical talents of chan and the non-stop motor mouth of tucker made for an ethnically unusual duet in " rush hour " that played well to audiences around the world . 
the formula worked so well , in fact , that the sequel was inevitable . 
i'm never thrilled with the idea of a follow-up to a successful original since they rarely meet the previously set expectations . 
surprisingly , " rush hour 2 " wastes no time getting down to business and turns out to be better than the flick that spawned it . 
the script , by jeff nathanson ( utilizing the characters developed by ross lamanna in the first film ) , wastes no time getting to the point right from the start . 
terrorists have bombed the us embassy in hong kong , killing two american translators , and chief inspector lee ( jackie chan ) is handed the job of solving the crime . 
concurrently , his friend james carter ( chris tucker ) arrives on the island for some much needed r&r and expects his friend to spend some time and show him the sights . 
instead , lee drags carter into the case and the duo get involved in stopping a conspiracy to counterfeit hundreds of million of us dollars . 
the makers of " rush hour 2 " are working at a distinct advantage over the original . 
we , the viewer , are familiar with the two lead characters and the already-existing chemistry that chan and tucker developed so well the first time around . 
that chemistry was a high point ( and probably the saving point ) before and , now , the pair wears their friendship like a comfortable suit . 
little time is wasted in getting to know the key players so the screenplay capitalizes on those things we liked best in " rush hour . " 
first and foremost to me , in " rh2 , " is the immense pleasure in watching jackie chan's artistry in fight choreography . 
the 47-year old martial arts master has a renowned reputation for doing all of his own stunt work and , here , he does not disappoint . 
chan's use of props when battling bad guys continues as he pulverizes his opponents with whatever item comes to hand , such as a trash bucket . 
his moves look every bit as good as they ever did as he fights four or five nemesis at once on bamboo scaffolding , on the tail end of a yacht , in a hong kong massage parlor and , for the finale , in a las vegas casino . 
like harold lloyd or buster keaton , chan takes pride in putting his physical self on the line in pursuit of his artistry and is a joy to watch . 
chris tucker reprises his role as the motor mouthed la cop , carter , who teams , again , with lee to put down the bad guys . 
when he is unceremoniously pulled from his vacation to help his colleague and friend with the big case , he still looks to have some fun . 
when lee goes into a karaoke bar , the lair of chief bad guy ricky tan ( john lone ) and his hoods , carter takes the spotlight on stage with a credible michael jackson riff . 
the comedian made the move from the improv stage to the big screen and , with jackie chan , has a franchise to hang his coat on to pay the bills . 
the combo of chan's flying feet and fists with tucker's fast mouth make a duet more endearing than riggs and murtaugh in the " lethal weapon " films . 
the supporting cast is here to move things along efficiently . 
john lone , as ricky tan , is a suave villain who is the real power behind the throne of american bigwig steven reign ( alan king in a walk through performance ) . 
lone doesn't chew scenery or make pronouncements to " get lee and carter , " but gives the chief bad guy elegance . 
zhang zi-yi ( " crouching tiger , hidden dragon " ) continues to display her martial arts skills as ricky's taciturn henchlady , hu li , who carries on an ongoing battle with carter . 
 ( carter has a problem , through most of the film , with hitting a woman , but this falls aside with their eventual one-on-one melee at the conclusion . ) 
roselyn sanchez is knockdown gorgeous ( and resembles sandra bullock ) as undercover agent isabella molina - she doesn't add much to the equation but is terrific to watch . 
director ratner and the original " rush hour " production team have assembled a crew of skilled craftsmen to work behind the camera . 
cinematographer matthew f . leonetti has had a long career of shooting action flicks and gives " rh2 " the fluid camera movement the genre film needs . 
production design by terrence marsh spans continents and gives the right look , whether it is in a hong kong karaoke bar or a high stakes las vegas casino . 
the rest of the techs are of the same high quality . 
i'm surprised to even say that " rush hour 2 " is the most entertaining of the summer blockbuster movies . 
it takes the best of the first film and kicks jurassic dino butt in its fun , frolic and fast pace and is the best mainstream thing out , so far , this summer . 
i give it a b . 
shakespeare . you hardly understood it in high school . 
why would you want more of it now that your english grade doesn't count on it ? 
if this is your attitude , then i'll say right off the bat that kenneth branagh's hamlet is probably not for you , and you might as well stop reading right now . 
if , however , you are a lover of the bard , or at the very least are open-minded about a challenging script , read on , for there is something rotten in the state of denmark . 
namely , the king has died , and his widow the queen has wed the king's brother , claudius , but prince hamlet suspects foul play . 
his suspicions are confirmed when the ghost of his father appears and relates the story of his murder at his own brother's hands . 
hamlet , enlisting the help of his friend horatio , conspires to capture the conscience of the new king to expose his treachery . . . . and 
the game is afoot . . . . 
the first things you notice about this production are the sets and costumes . 
with external scenes filmed at blemheim palace in england ( also the one of the sites for the recent the avengers ) , the grandiose quality of the setting is immediately established . 
interior scenes are similarly graced with intricate and flamboyant rooms and chambers . 
the hamlet castle's grand throne room is an impressive piece of work incorporating high ceilings , mirror-panel doors , and bridges which connect opposite sides of a second-story loft . 
costuming is equally grand , drawing upon both history and imagination . . 
not quite the denmark of the 1600's , the characters' attire is something of a cross between that era and turn of the century russia , very effectively giving the film more of a timeless feel . 
it is not surprising that tim harvey and alexandra byrne were nominated for best art direction and best costume design oscars , respectively . 
in addition to directing , kenneth branagh also plays the title character . 
as the revenge-driven royal heir , branagh provides a riveting performance of emotional highs and lows . 
from the anticipation of seeing his father's ghost , to the melancholy of finding the burial site of his childhood jester , to his eventual wrath , branagh delivers in spades . 
every scene truly revolves around hamlet , as much a tribute to branagh's acting and directing as to shakespeare's manuscript . 
hamlet seems to be a who's who of shakespearean-trained actors , so watching them perform the craft for which they have much love is a delight in itself . 
julie christie , as hamlet's mother gertrude , and derek jacobi as his murderous uncle claudius both fill the classic roles superbly , as do many of the supporting players . 
kate winslet as hamlet's lover ophelia , does an outstanding job demonstrating the character's plummet to the depths of dispair and madness . 
richard briers as ophelia's father , polonius , and michael moloney as her brother , laertes , are equally convincing . 
nicholas farrell as hamlet's trusted friend horatio , and timothy spall and reece dinsdale as the two-timing rosencrantz and guildenstern round out the excellent core cast . 
hamlet also seems to be a film in which someone tried to stuff as many well known actors as possible . 
in some cases , this made for interesting scenes . 
billy crystal is surprisingly good as the gravedigger who unearths the skull of yorick , whom hamlet knew quite well . 
crystal proves himself able to deliver the lines with both the timing of a classic actor and the verbal countenance of a comedian , and the result is a very funny scene . 
however , charleton heston , whom many might think would butcher shakespeare , is the biggest surprise of all . 
as the player king , the leader of a troupe of traveling actors , he is absolutely breathtaking when narrating the story of priam and hecuba . 
part of his monologue is overlaid with a visual enactment of the story ( with sir john gielgud and judi dench ) , but this is most unfortunate , for it robs heston of some of the attention which he deserves at this time . 
his off-camera speaking , while gripping , sort of downplays the scene to a narration done by any other well-voiced actor . 
i wish branagh had chosen to allow us to envision in our own minds the scene which heston lays out , and let the venerable actor have the attention . 
unfortunately , there were some casting choices which led to poor distractions . 
jack lemmon , an excellent actor , just can't do shakespeare . 
as marcellus , the guard who sees the elder hamlet's ghost , lemmon sadly underperforms and is shown up left and right by those around him . 
gerard depardieu , another talented actor , is wasted when given little more than the utterances of " yes , my lord " and " no , my lord " in the role of reynaldo . 
richard attenborough has a ( literally ) walk-on role , showing up at the eleventh hour as the english ambassador . 
i think he had two lines . 
then there is rufus sewell as fortinbras of norway . 
when i went to see dangerous beauty earlier this year , two ladies behind me kept commenting about how handsome he was . 
if bulging eyes are your idea of handsome , well i guess comic actor marty feldman was some kind of sex symbol to you . 
hamlet is a complicated tale of treachery and revenge in which triumph and defeat become one . 
branagh attempts to help us out with some of the intricacies by visually representing some of the more elusive stretches of dialogue by presenting them as flashback-type images . 
this only works about half the time , and i wonder if it would have been just as well to do without them . 
you don't have to be some kind of genius to appreciate shakespeare , but it is quite difficult to understand unless you have the time to read or hear it carefully and repeatedly . 
the alternate method of comprehension is that with which most of us are familiar , the high school english course . 
in it , you are hopefully fortunate enough to have an educator willing to help you with the plot points and nuances essential to understanding a play written in the rigmarole known as the king's english . 
or i suppose you could just read the cliff notes . 
the year is 1962 and the military is conducting nuclear testings . 
involved in these tests is hank marshall ( jones ) , an army colonel who is critical of the above-ground tests that are being done . 
he urges below-ground tests which no one will consider at the time until it is learned that the soviets have conducted underground tests of their own . 
marshall is also troubled by a turbulent marriage to carly ( lange ) who is topless on the base's beach in full view of the entire personnel . 
hank's reaction is one of amusement . 
he's been here before and he deals with it in the only way he knows how . 
the problem is carly is a manic-depressive and when she isn't flirting with any man who happens to be near her , she's fantasizing about a fictious world where she'd rather be . 
typical of the mental illness , she also is promiscuous and foul-tempered . 
the mood swings are quick and violent and the torment she puts her husband and their two daughters is considerable . 
from hank's reports which state his opposition to the army's methods of testing , he is transferred from hawaii to alabama . 
carly patterns herself after movie stars and tries to become marilyn monroe , bleach-blond and all . 
the new home in alabama is pretty run-down and depressing and sets carly off on a violent tantrum . 
after meeting his new commanding officer ( booth ) , hank sees an all too familiar pattern begin to repeat . 
carly openly flirts with the co . hank tries to deal with the situation , but his only resort is to carry her off and throw her into a nearby pool . 
arguments ensue . 
the family becomes even more alienated . 
the co is very interested in pursuing an encounter with carly and sends hank off to observe an underground test which causes the irradiation of two local ranchers , much to the vocal objections of hank , who spots them but is unable to cancel the detonation of the bomb . 
back at home , the two girls try to hold things together but they wonder why their father can't deal with their mother's problems . 
one daughter says , " he's blind and she's crazy . " 
the other answers , " they're perfect for each other . " 
it reaches the breaking point when the older girl ( locane ) and a boy , the co's son ( o'donnell ) see her mother and the co making love in an abandoned shed . 
she forces her mother to tell hank and get it all out into the open . 
hank returns home and finds his wife in the middle of a musical put on by the military wives , including the co's wife ( snodgress ) . 
he confronts the c . o . 
but not about carly . 
he is upset over the coverup surrounding the accident during the testing . 
a fight breaks out between the two when the co accuses hank of not being able to satisfy his wife . 
hank is arrested . 
what follows is manipulation and revenge on the part of the co . he convinces carly to commit hank to a hospital for observation . 
instead , they fill him with so many drugs that he can barely cope . 
he foams at the mouth and cannot even finish sewing a leather wallet as presents for his daughters . 
carly is determined to free her husband from the clutches of the army and succeeds in doing so only by being the strong one in the family for the first time . 
the film has an upbeat ending with hope that the family has found a way to deal with its problems . 
the performances are solid throughout . 
jones is sympathetic and loving and is most effective in those quiet moments when he tries to deal with his wife's rage . 
he comforts her and offers protection . 
lange gives a strong and spirited portrayal of a woman on the edge who draws up the courage to try and put things right for her family . 
amy locane is very good as she fights to keep her family together while struggling with her own doubts as to whether she even should . 
blue sky is based on the story of the stagner family . 
the screenplay was written by rama laurie stagner ( with arlene sarner and jerry leichtling ) . 
the film marks the final work of tony richardson who died shortly after its completion in 1991 . 
he had made such classics as look back in anger ( 1958 ) and tom jones ( 1963 ) . 
orion pictures underwent bankruptcy and caused the film to sit on a shelf for three years . 
the film joins an alread promising fall line-up of films and is well worth catching for the performances alone . 
the happy bastard's 30-second review : 
american pie 
the summer of raunch continues to spread into theatres with this latest yuk fest , filled with sick jokes and teen dialogue aplenty . 
if you go expecting dawson's creek , you're in for a problem . 
if your expectations are lower ( and better , i might add ) , you will enjoy the hell out of american pie . 
the movie casts several unknowns , with the only real recognizable one being sctv's own eugene levy as a happy-go-lucky dad . 
the story revolves around four high school seniors who have one goal before the school year gets out- get laid . 
that's pretty much it . 
throughout the movie , little sick comic bits are sprinkled throughout , including a memorable scene involving an apple pie ( i won't give it away , but you probably know what it is ) and an internet broadcast gone horribly awry . 
of course , the movie has some slightly sentimental bits , but they don't drag the movie's humor content down that bad . 
most of the actors get their job done , but it's levy who's a hoot , a father who tries to talk sex with his son with the help of some curious " visual aids " . 
i couldn't stop laughing during this movie , and if you can stand all the raunch and the sex references , then american pie is for you . 
if you're one of those " conservative " types , well , i'll bet you're having fun at home while this , south park , and austin powers ii plays in theatres , now aren't you ? 
_in brief : _ this film needs no introduction . 
if you haven't heard of it , then you must have been up in space on a sabbatical , and if you haven't seen it -- well , i suspect you're in a small minority ! 
first thing's first ? is it all it's hyped up to be ? 
well , yes ? and no . 
it's a good film , and there's a lot to like about it , but it's not without its problems . 
when i saw the first trailer for " titanic " , it was when i went to see " bean " last summer , i think , my intial reaction was -- ain't that downright sick to make a disaster movie out of such a dreadful , real-life tragedy ? ! 
i mean , what's happened to hollywood's script-writers , have they run entirely out of new ideas ? 
gads , whatever next , i asked myself , how about an action film based on hiroshima starring jean claude van damme ? 
i was not entirely filled with anticipation , but then i wasn't alone in that respect . 
it's when it came out in the cinema , to rave reviews ( well , mostly ) and anyone who'd been to see it seemed disturbingly obsessed by it that i started to take notice ! 
i didn't see the film until several months after its release ( by which time my sister had seen it about four times ! ) , 
so i went with a slightly more open mind , but i still didn't think i'd enjoy it much . 
did i ? yes and no . 
mainly yes , i'm happy to say . 
the first hour or so was beautifully done , not so much because of the scripting ( i'll talk about that later ? ) but because the re-created ship and sets were stunning to look at , as was cameron's directing , and the performances of the principal cast were so strong that the " human " aspect of the story , the romance between rose ( kate winslet ) and jack ( leonardo dicaprio ) , was enchanting . 
the film is told via flashback , with gloria stuart playing the elderly rose in the modern day ( you knew that , a' course ! 
 : - ) ) . 
well , it's an often effective device to use in storytelling -- though sometimes it can fall flat . 
does it work here ? 
in script form it doesn't add all that much to the story . 
what does add a lot to the story is gloria stuart , whose stunning performance is the strongest , most moving of the film . 
her presence brings a much deeper level of passion , and depth to the story , and though her appearances are relatively brief , the film would have suffered without her . 
also impressive are dicaprio and winslet , who wholly succeed in rising above the often poor dialogue , and the bond they form is both heartfelt and moving . 
it's an old story , you know -- forbidden love ala romeo and juliet -- but it works , and jack's " rescuing " rose ( in both literal and figurative senses ) and teaching her to live life for what counts was pointed and touching . 
in fact , i enjoyed the first half of the film a lot , largely because winslet and dicaprio bring such and charm , energy to the romance . 
it's engaging , touching and very enjoyable . 
there's more than a tinge of poignancy to it as well , simply because you know it's not going to be a happy ending . 
which leads us to the second half of the film . 
we all knew it was coming . 
i'm sure director cameron was looking forward with eager anticipation to it , because as he's stated in interviews , the real thrust of the story ( for him ) was the sinking , and the jack/rose romance was a merely a manipulative plot device to get you emotionally into the film . 
i think that understates the importance of the romance , as i found it far more enjoyable than an hour of watching people die . 
the iceberg arrives , and the captain announces that titanic will have sunk in about an hour . 
and it is an hour . 
my goodness , we don't miss a second of that hour ? 
gratuitous ? well , perhaps not by today's standards , i'm sure there's been far worse produced under the banner of " entertainment " in other films . 
but i certainly wasn't prepared for how shocking and graphic the last hour or so would be . 
not that i'd expect the word " understatement " to be part of cameron's vocabulary ( he who brought us such , umm , vivid films as " terminator 2 " and " aliens " ) . 
is it overdone ? 
i thought so . 
understatement can sometimes work wonders in conveying tragedy . 
no , no one expected a happy ending , but i didn't quite expect the horrendously shocking and powerful scenes we were bombarded throughout the film's second half . 
still , whether it was overdone and heavy-handed or not , if it was the shock-factor cameron was after it worked , because i was shocked and moved , in fact i spent most of the last hour in tears ! 
you really couldn't help but get emotionally involved , whether it was wishing someone would knock that dreadfully psychotic fiance of rose's overboard or desperately hoping that rose would rescue jack , or that jack would rescue rose , or that they would both survive . 
perhaps the most harrowing scene was when the ship has sunk , and those that sunk along with the ship freeze to death on the water surface . 
the bit where rose lets go of jack's hand , while promising she'll never let go in her heart was particularly heart-wrenching , and the sight of rescue boats sailing amid the ocean of corpses was a pretty powerful image , to put no fine a point on it . 
i loved the ending , however , which was both moving and slightly uplifting following the horror of the past hour and a half . 
so , we've established that the film is powerful and moving , if the last hour was rather excessive . 
haven't mentioned the script . 
plot-wise it's ok , though the jack/rose relationship was beautifully developed , but i've a feeling that's to the actors credit if anything . 
as for the dialogue ? well , titanic is set in 1912 . 
it's a period drama . 
but i saw very little indication of period in so far as the dialogue is concerned . 
did they really use phrases like " goddamn it ! " 
back in the turn of the century ? 
i doubt it . 
would someone talk like this : " do ya love the guy or what ? " . 
i doubt it . 
is such dialogue as " i saw the iceberg , and i see it in your eyes now " not just a bit ? clumsy ? 
yes it is . 
a little more attention to dialogue would not have gone astray , and cameron himself is to blame ( he wrote the script ) . 
stick with directing , dude . 
but its more than redeemed by the acting , with dicaprio and winslet on fine form , ably supported by a strong cast . 
star of the show was gloria stuart , though -- why didn't she win that oscar ? ! 
after all , they were throwing oscars at " titanic " left , right and centre , but gloria was perhaps the most deserving nominee . 
directing-wise cameron does a spectacular job . 
like i said , his vision was a bit excessive , but at least he directed it well . 
i haven't even mentioned james horner's beautiful score . 
utterly heavenly , though when your dad and sister play the soundtrack a lot you do start to get a bit bored with it ! 
 ; - ) 
i've finished my rant , which lasted a lot longer than i thought it would ! 
just leaves a couple of questions ; was it worth all those oscars ? 
hell , don't talk to me about oscars . 
bloomin' farce . 
it was deserving in a number of departments , though . 
last question ; is it , as some suggest , one of the best films of all-time ? 
nope , i don't think so . 
it's certainly one of the most powerful and memorable films i've ever seen , but i don't think it quite ranks as one of my all-time favourites . 
and as for the fact they're reportedly making a " titanic 2 " ? well i guess that's typical hollywood for you ! 
in some respects , rush hour is the ultimate exercise in cliched filmmaking . 
the hero is the renegade cop that prefers to work alone . 
the cop in question cannot solve the case until he gets in trouble . 
all chinese people are somehow involved in the criminal element . 
the duo must always be completely mismatched . 
the hero has to say some smart-assed comment before ( and after ) shooting someone . 
however , that doesn't necessarily make for a bad film . 
rush hour is jackie chan's first major hollywood film since the dismal the protector ( 1985 ) . 
proving once again that hollywood can learn many things from foreign film markets ( ie : hong kong ) , jackie chan is given much more free reign than before . 
still , some die-hard jackie chan fans may be disappointed , as even chan himself has voiced displeasure over the length of the fight scenes ( which he views as too short , according to one interview ) . 
this film takes a familiar theme of east meets west . 
jackie chan is lee , the straight laced inspector who is imported to help deal with a kidnapping case , while chris tucker is carter , the loudmouthed , destructive cop that is `promoted' to the fbi to help him . 
or , at least , so he thinks ( also another classic notion in action films : the fbi must always get in the way of our heroes ) . 
despite the necessary conventions of action films , rush hour is some of the most fun you'll spend and hour and forty minutes watching . 
jackie chan continues to be one of the most exciting martial artists on the big screen , continuing to perform his own stunts and dazzling audiences with his flashy kicks and punches . 
chris tucker , familiar from his whiny , annoying role in the fifth element is more palatable , complementing jackie chan's straight-laced character . 
however , jackie chan still maintains his comic-slapstick edge , as expected of him and his films . 
perfectly downplaying the `fish-out-of-water' routine through his character's attempts at mixing into american culture , he makes up for the down time his character experiences . 
when he is in action , however , you'll be amused and dazzled . 
still being inventive in the use of objects to beat people up ( in this case , a steering wheel , a serving tray , and a barstool ) , jackie chan proves to be the pioneer of slapstick kung fu . 
chris tucker's character may come across as irritating , yet is also humorous . 
since he's not a physical actor to the level of jackie chan , he uses his main weapon : his mouth ( hence , the tagline , `fastest hands in the east meets the fastest mouth in the west' ) . 
while dialogue is not necessarily shakespeare , it is appropriate for the film and still very funny . 
while not necessarily poignant , attempts at character development and growth between characters come off surprisingly well . 
lee's `knowledge' of american pop culture ( `that's the beach boys ! ' ) 
when contrasted against carter's lack of knowledge of chinese culture makes for an interesting scene where lee teaches carter the kung fu disarming trick , while carter teaches lee hip-hop dance moves . 
while rush hour is not at the same level as police story 3 and 4 ( known in north america as supercop and jackie chan's first strike , respectively ) , it more than makes up for the poorly received films operation condor and mr . nice guy . 
with its appropriate mixture of high kicks and lots of laughs , it makes for a fun film . 
as well , it is a true departure from jackie chan films , as it is missing one common element : a whiny female co-star . 
my fellow americans is a movie that at first glance looks to have little substance ( or a movie that we've all seen a million times ) , two lifetime rivals thrown together and then the fun begins . 
this is exactly what happened in this movie , but fortunately , they managed to do it in an interesting and funny way . 
the movie starts with a quick ( and i do mean quick ) glance of two presidents russell kramer ( jack lemmon ) and matt douglas ( james garner ) . 
william haney ( dan aykroyd ) and ted matthews ( john heard ) are the new president and vice president . 
there is a scandal that arises involving a kickback from a contractor and haney is positive that he buried that years ago . 
he finds a scapegoat in kramer and now everyone wants kramer and douglas dead . 
this movie was exceptional for many reasons . 
one being that they found people ( lemmon and garner ) that have good chemisty together . 
they worked very well as a unit and they mirrored each other perfectly , one being a ladies man and one being the old man ( i'll let you fiqure which is which ) . 
also , they found people that know their parts as govenment officials well . 
it seemed to me that garner played almost exactly the same role that he played in the distinquished gentleman ( except then he was a congressman ) . 
experience counts for a lot ! ! 
in , " the muse " albert brooks plays steven phillips , a hollywood screenwriter who after winning a humanitarian award for his work is dumped by his studio . 
they claim that he's lost his edge and his agent is quick to agree with them . 
he knows that he needs to write something fresh and original and quick or else his career will be over . 
so he turns to his " best " friend , jack ( jeff bridges ) another screenwriter who's enjoyed success after success . 
on the way over to jack's house steven sees jack helping an attractive woman ( sharon stone ) into a cab and begins to think : is he having an affair ? 
when confronted , jack relunctently tells him that this mystery woman is , in fact , a muse , a mythological figure who is believed to have inspired all creativity , and has helped him garner his success . 
 " she doesn't do any actual writing , " he is told , " but inspires you . " 
steven is excited by what he's hearing and asks jack to call her up to see if she'll take steven on as a new client . 
jack arranges a meeting between the two and suggests that steven bring her a present , preferably something from tiffany's . 
after the meeting the muse , sarah decides to take on steven , but at a price : she wants a suite at the four seasons and wants steven to perform odd tasks for her ( like bringing her salads in the middle of the night . ) 
steven's wife ( andy macdowell ) sees him at a food store and questions him about why he has tampons in his wagon . 
steven confesses everything and , although at first suspicious , she later allows sarah to move into their guest room and eventually into their life . 
the only question for steven is if the muse is worth all the trouble he's going through for her . 
and that's a question only time will tell . 
 " the muse " is albert brooks' sixth film as writer/director/actor ( he co-wrote with monica johnson ) and although it's a good movie it's not up to the level of his best works ( " defending your life " and " mother " ) . 
the problem lies in the script , and for a movie that relies on its dialogue for its humor , there aren't nearly as many laughs as they are chuckles despite a few good one-liners . 
it has a great premise but doesn't deliver up to it's full potential . 
but , i like albert brooks in this film and i think that we can all identify with steven phillips a little bit . 
he may whine and complain , but he just wants to support his family and be happy . 
and i like sharon stone in this movie too ; it's a nice change of pace for her . 
and i also enjoyed the cameos featuring the likes of rob reiner , james cameron and martin scorsese . 
and although " the muse " doesn't have as much to say about hollywood as robert altman's " the player " i still left the theater feeling good . 
and that's something i wish i got out of more movies . 
plot : good ol' texan kid suddenly gets to play first-string quarterback on his high school team's football team , in a town where football is considered religion . 
the coach is just about the biggest a-hole you'd ever want to meet , who will do practically anything to win . 
the good ol' texan boy does not approve of said man's methods . 
critique : a fun football movie . 
this film was obviously geared towards the teen market , with mtv behind its production , a big tv star actor in the lead role , rockin' hip music galore , and plenty of t&a . 
having said that , i enjoyed the look and feel of the movie , thought james van der beek gave a solid performance , loved the slick sounds , and yup , loved that t&a ! 
i actually thought this was a comedy going in , but overall , it plays more towards the dramatic , than a comedy . 
i also enjoyed jon voight's performance as the stubborn dick coach , as well as many of the other character players on the team . 
this is not a classic film by any stretch of the imagination , but it might teach some kids the hard lessons behind the " fun " game of football , or just allow them to have a good time for about an hour and forty-five minutes in the movie theatre ( or in the comfort of their own home , depending on where you watch this stuff . ) 
all in all , i would definitely watch this movie if you like football , play football or want your kid to succeed in high school football . 
you could also watch it if you like teen flicks with a lot of cute guys and girls running around doing their stuff . 
and did i mention the t&a ? 
 : ) 
little known facts about this film and its stars : james van der beek actually started acting after a concussion stopped him from playing football in real life . 
he is the oldest of three children , and his father is a cellular phone salesman while his mom runs a gymnastics studio . 
he's born in connecticut and received $200 , 000 for his role in this film . 
actor scott caan , who plays football player " tweeder " in this film , is the son of famed actor james caan in real life . 
that's right , he's sonny's son ! 
actress amy smart , who plays van der beek's girlfriend in this movie , also played the main star's girl in the 1999 film outside providence ( 6 . 5/10 ) . 
screenwriter w . peter iliff also had a part in writing the screenplays for the 1992 harrison ford film , patriot games , and the keanu reeves surfing flick , point break . 
director brian robbins might be best remembered as the " cool dude " from the tv series " head of the class " . 
his name was eric mandrian and he generally wore a long , black trench coat on the show . 
the book mox ( james van der beek ) is reading on the sidelines in this movie , hidden inside the team's playbook , is " slaughterhouse-five " by kurt vonnegut , jr . the high school fight song played at the pep rally is the texas a&m war hymn . 
the film starts out with a creepy opening sequence to which has the now classic and creepy score by writer/director/producer john carpenter who in my mind is a brilliant director , he really is . 
he wrote this film , he directed this film , he produced this film and he made the excessively creepy score to this film . 
i think he is and always will be famous for this classic which after 21 years has not lost it's popularity or it's ability to scare the wits out of people . 
i think i have seen 'halloween' over 100 times and each time i find something new and brilliant , and each time i am scared even though i know what is going to happen . 
i own three different versions of the film : a vhs regular version that came with a limited edition 20th anniversary t-shirt , a boxed edition vhs in a hardcover case digitally re-mastered with the original theatrical widescreen presentation , in a nifty plastic picture decorated box with a numbered snow-globe . 
in other words i am completely and utterly obsessed with the film . 
it has changed horror movies forever and spawned six sequels with only 2 , 4 , and 7 being truly good . 
it also spawned several cheap imitations of the film that were offensive in some ways to a true halloween fan . 
since i heard about halloween being released on dvd in a limited edition of 30 , 000 copies , i knew i had to buy one no matter what ! 
i did and man to me it's the best dvd ever manufactured with the brilliance of the film . 
no words can describe the dvd . 
in 'halloween' michael myers is a evil person whom killed his sister in cold blood 16 years ago in 1963 . 
now in 1978 grown up and in a mental hospital michael myers escapes to go back to his hometown of haddonfield , illinois , followed by his past doctor sam loomis . 
the person michael is targeting is laurie strode who is played by jamie lee curtis in her film debut . 
why is he stalking her ? 
check out halloween ii it explains it all . 
on this unholy night on october 31 , 1978 laurie strode and her two friends are going to have the time of their lives , which is trying to stay alive . 
the whole film is filled with terrifying moments most coming from just seeing michael myers walk . 
nick castle who played the shape in the first movie did an incredible job , and no other person in any other halloween flick can do what he did . 
what john carpenter did in 1978 is made a ground-breaking new film , with scares , wit , and style . 
the movie is flawless if not perfect . 
no other movie or sequel has lived up to this one , and in my opinion never will . 
'halloween' will be like 'psycho' and still be extremely popular even almost 40 years later . 
i just hope someday 'halloween' will be released in a new dolby soundtrack with the 4 extra scenes on the dvd edition . 
'halloween' isn't just another slice-and-dice horror flick , it's an intelligent , horrifying and best film experience ever made . 
see 'halloween' and be scared . . . . then 
watch it again ! 
reviewed by brandon herring october 7 , 1999 . 
i have to admit that i disliked this film initially . 
it certianly isn't for every taste , and it's sheer torture to sit through if you're in a restless mood . 
that said , if you are in the right mood , it's absolutely incredible . 
this was my second favorite movie of 1998 , and would have been a shoo-in for first in almost any other year . 
perhaps the big turn-off for many was this film's unconventionality . 
i'd be hard-pressed to compare it to any other film that i've seen - it is very , very artsy , incredibly slow - and amazingly , it works beautifully . 
on my second viewing , i realized that the film follows the three act structure ( i didn't think it had any sort of structure at all when i first saw it ) . 
the first act serves to set up the characters - sort of . 
it exists even moreso to set a mood of tension and restlesness , and perhaps even feelings of boredom . 
and then it is shattered by the intense violence of the second ( which encompasses most of the movie ) . 
the majority of the film is one extended battle scene , intercut with brief flashbacks and voice-overs . 
the artsier elements do not detract from the action , but add to it - they succeed in briefly letting the viewer peek into the minds of the soldiers , only to be suddenly yanked back into reality when the battle resumes . 
the battle scenes are amazing ( second only to " saving private ryan " in my opinion ) . 
they're brutal , horrifying , and at times beautiful due to the amazing cinematography . 
the second act is as immersive , brilliant , and haunting as any film that i have ever seen . 
the only problems come during the first and third acts . 
malick takes a little too long to get the film started . 
although the initial scenes - which consist of two soldiers' experiencing a near-eden-like paradise while going awol , and the preperations for battle - are effective and necessary , hints of pretentiousness sink in . 
the film is just a tad too artsy near the beginning , and a lot of people that disliked the movie probably gave up on it because of this . 
the final act is effective at winding the film down , but the problems from the first persist - it's a bit too long , and comes over as pretentious at times . 
that said , there are two sequences ( one where a soldier gets a devastating note from his wife , and another where one of the main characters is killed ) that are nothing short of incredible . 
the performances are phenominal all around . 
the two standouts are nick nolte and newcomer jim caviezel , both of whom should have been nominated for oscars . 
nolte is riveting and intense as the colonel in charge of the operation . 
his character is hard , mean , and somewhat reckless with the lives of his men , and yet nolte somehow manages to evoke sympathy for him . 
caviezel is forever questioning the nature of war , his place in it , and if there's any deeper meaning to the hell that he's going through . 
he is absolutely perfect - genuine , sympathetic , sincere , and yet strong when he needs to be . 
although restricted to a relatively small role , sean penn is also very good as the company's pessimistic seargent . 
as to how it stacks up to " saving private ryan " - it was my second favorite movie of 1998 , " ryan " was my first . 
it's really hard to compare the two - they are so , so different - so i won't , beyond saying that spielberg's film had more of an impact on me . 
however , the two are comparable from the standpoint of quality ( i can easily see why someone would " the thin red line " above " ryan ) . 
i highly recommend both of them , and consider them to be the two best war movies ever made . 
all in all , " the thin red line " is filmmaking of an incredibly high order . 
it's slight faults are easily offset by the sheer brilliance of what is done right . 
it's a real shame that it tanked at the box office - films this unconventional , powerful , and thought-provoking don't come along very often . 
it was a rainy friday afternoon in columbus when i persuaded a friend to see a matinee performance of mst3k : tm . 
he had never seen any episodes of the show , and i have watched a scant few , due to its unsocial airtime on comedy central and the uneven nature of many of the episodes . 
for those of you not familiar with the premise , dr clayton forrester ( beaulieu ) wishes to take over the world by finding the worst film ever made and unleashing it upon an unsuspecting public . 
to achieve this , he ( in the words of the tv series' theme , which is missing in the movie ) " bumped [mike nelson ( nelson ) ] on the noggin and then shot him into space " , and is monitoring nelson's reactions to the movies he is forced to endure . 
rather than succumb to the sheer awfulness of many of the movies , nelson spends his time making wisecracks with the help of his two robot companions , tom servo and crow t . robot . 
the format of the show consists of nelson , servo and crow making their comments while silhouetted against the movie being watched , and breaks every 20 minutes or so for segments set on the satellite of love , the ship on which our heroes are marooned . 
only two things are different in the movie : the absence of forrester's sidekick , tv's frank , and the slower pace of the jokes . 
this latter change is presumably deliberate to avoid the viewing audience missing some of the best lines while laughing from the previous joke . 
for their big screen outing , the producers have chosen " this island earth " , a 1954 classic , and one of the first sf films to have a special effects budget larger than the average grocery bill . 
unfortunately for that film ( but making it ideal mst3k fodder ) , acting and dialogue appear to have taken a back seat to the effects which , by today's standards , are less than impressive . 
nelson & co . make jokes about everything from japan's dominance in the world market , to star trek , to the state of disrepair of seattle's kingdome , and most of them work . 
unfortunately , the segments set outside the satellite's movie theater seem out of place and aren't particularly funny , but at least they're fairly short . 
the big question about this movie though is : why ? 
i presume it was an attempt to gain a larger following to keep support behind the series ( rumours of its impending demise circulated for some time before the plug was eventually pulled a few months ago ) , but the format gains nothing from its transition to the big screen -- there are no special effects to dazzle you , no action sequences to keep you on the edge of your seat , and no use of digital surround sound . 
so , it seems pointless to spend $8 per person to see this movie when in a few months it will be out on video and you can watch it for $3 , and not have to sit in a room full of popcorn addicts . 
nevertheless , mst3k : tm provides more laugh-out-loud opportunities than any film you're going to see this year , and i thoroughly recommend it to anyone with a pulse . 
given its uniqueness , i hesitate to grade it against other films , but it fulfils its claims and so in the class of " unsubtle comedy films whose laughs come at the expense of bad b-movies " it does well . 
the uncompromising nudity bared throughout petrice chereau's intimacy has already garnered much notoriety , but it's in the naked faces of fearless actors mark rylance ( angels & insects ) and kerry fox ( welcome to sarajevo ) that the tender ache of emotional resonance is discovered . 
with sharp , intelligent eyes that reflect experience and maturity , rylance and fox are refreshingly detached from the false glamour of hollywood idols . 
their sex scenes together are bracing in their raw honesty , in the acceptance of flesh and messiness . 
less apparent , but no less remarkable , are the astute observations of behavior revealed through those carnal beats of haste and hesitance , often without a single line of dialogue . 
not aiming for the spiritual poetry of in the realm of the senses or the philosophical transgressions of crash , chereau keeps his sexual odyssey firmly grounded in terms of straightforward character development . 
that may be the very reason why intimacy seems unerringly impressive but never particularly significant on more than a tactile , sensory level . 
the themes of human isolation are barren and obvious , a science project devoid of any especially groundbreaking hypothesis . 
intimacy does manage to stand out from lesser portraits of " human interconnectedness " and pinter-esque rummages through psychological dirty drawers ( okay , kill me ) . 
shallow though it might sound , it's amazing how much is filled in through an inspired cast , perceptive camerawork , and imaginative ways of treating the love scene . 
those ingredients are too assured and confident to merely dismiss as icing on the cake , especially since they are the substance of the cake itself . 
adapted from a pair of short stories by british novelist hanif kureishi , intimacy weaves desperate lovemaking between two strangers in london . 
every wednesday , jay ( rylance ) and claire ( fox ) meet in his cluttered , dank apartment for an hour or two of sexual release from their uninspired lives . 
he's been head bartender at a posh restaurant for over six years . 
she's a mystery to him but her glum workaday appearance reveals a similar dissatisfaction . 
they're both married , but his relationship has curdled into an embittered separation . 
as the weeks draw on , jay obsessively takes it upon himself to uncover claire's personal routines . 
in his attempt to gain a fuller semblance of who she is , he opens wounds that hadn't existed before by single-handedly corrupting the fantasy . 
if it weren't for a few unnecessary subplots involving jay's brother and his bevy of disgruntled co-workers , this minimalist premise might be described as a modern fable on the perils of wish fulfillment . 
chareau's restless camera ( once again wielded by superb and ever-attentive cinematographer eric gautier ) is less appropriate here than in his family transit-oriented those who love me can take the train . 
the scenes that linger are the still ones where rylance and fox separately , pensively attempt to carry on with their makeshift household routines . 
these are often captured in lingering , unblinking wide shots that view them stranded amidst their drab workplaces and homes . 
separation proves haunting in a melancholy series of intercut shots as rylance and fox undress on opposite sides of the room , crawling across the floor to meet in the center . 
despite being as restless as a fly during the hyperactive restaurant scenes ( all the better to blend in with a hustling crowd of gabby trendsetters ) , you'd be hard pressed to find a single uninteresting image . 
intimacy takes an interest in its sordid world of the lower-middle class , with lonely pubs and busy shopping streets -- it also understands the people who inhabit those spaces , viewing them with sympathy scraped raw . 
an evaluation would be incomplete without highlighting the great timothy spall ( the robust scene-stealer of many a mike leigh collaboration ) . 
as claire's cuckolded husband , this jocular heavyweight plays out his handful of bitter pill scenes with the unforced menace and self-effacing embarrassment of his imposing bulk . 
bangs in his eyes , his mouth forming into quizzical pouts and dry smirks , he may seem the fool in his barroom encounters opposite a sarcastic , gleaming mark rylance ( whose jay has arrived on the scene looking to stir up some trouble ) , but spall is no one to trifle with . 
his overreaching best pal demeanor suggests a mind abuzz with secret passageways of guile , his pointed questions only na ? ve if you choose not to read into their crafty insinuations . 
in his unassuming way , spall's carefully etched interpretation of hostility buried under a mountain of surface propriety may become one of the most criminally underappreciated performances of the year , but maybe also one of the best . 
he's that good . 
george little ( jonathan lipnicki ) wants a little brother . 
after mr . and mrs . little ( hugh laurie and geena davis ) visit the orphange , they decide to adopt stuart , a talking mouse ( voiced by michael j . fox ) . 
george isn't so fond of his new brother when stuart arrives at the little house , and neither is snowbell the family cat ( voiced by nathan lane ) . 
george and stuart eventually bond while preparing for a remote control boat race , but snowbell wants stuart out of the house ( he's unable to live with the taunts of other neighborhood felines saying it's ridiculous that a mouse has a pet cat ) . 
stuart little is a mix of live action and computer generated imagery ( cgi ) . 
the character of stuart , while obviously a computer generated image , grows on you as the film progresses and you'll soon see him as much more than a mere special effect . 
there is also a great deal of animal training involved with this film , as many of the " supporting cast " are actual cats ( with computer animated mouths so they can speak ) . 
it's fascinating to watch these cats give performances without an actual mouse to interact with . 
stuart little is a charming family film . 
there are some great laughs in the movie ( with a script co-written by the sixth sense's m . night shyamalan no less ! ) , 
some moments that can only be described as " too cute " ( the boat race sequence is what won me over ) and even the majority of the one-liners ( common nowadays in children's films or films featuring nathan lane ) are tolerable . 
kids and parents will love this one . 
stuart little is available on dvd from columbia tristar home video . 
there are two different dvds on sale : one contains the film in full frame , and the other presents the film in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 66 : 1 . 
both versions feature choices of either dolby surround or dolby digital 5 . 1 audio . 
both versions also contain the following extras ( and hang in there with me here . . . there's a lot of them ) : a full length audio commentary track by director rob minkoff and animation supervisor henry anderson , a full length audio commentary track by the visual effects supervisors , an isolated score track , an interactive trivia game , an interactive featurette that goes step by step through eight of the effects in the film , a making of documentary that originally aried on hbo , and a stuart little read-along story ( which you can read yourself or have stuart read for you ) . 
there are also three music videos , and six theatrical trailers ( called thecatrical trailers . . . 
get it ? 
it's funny ! ) for stuart little and five other columbia tristar releases : the adventures of elmo in grouchland , madeline , the nuttiest nutcracker , muppets from space , and baby geniuses ( the only bad thing about this entire dvd . . . 
i did not want to be reminded of the awfulness that is baby geniuses ) . 
dvd-rom features are also on the disc , including web links and a demo of the stuart little cd-rom game . 
but wait . . . 
there's still more ! 
there's a section called " basement treasures " where you will find the auditions of the film's animators , six deleted scenes which you can select to view with or without commentary from the director , a visual effects gag reel , a production gag reel , and an incredible eight minute storyboard sequence detailing the original concept for the boat race scene ( with commentary from the director ) . 
the first commentary track features director rob minkoff and animation supervisor henry anderson . 
they give insightful and detailed thoughts about the film's production . 
minkoff likes to point out scenes where other screenwriters came in and polished up the script , namely writers like scott alexander and larry karaszewski ( who wrote the people vs . larry flynt and ed wood ) and lowell ganz and babaloo mandel ( who wrote splash and multiplicity , among others ) . 
anderson is very appreciative of the animators who worked with him and often points out which animator worked on each scene as they occur . 
the second commentary track features visual effects supervisors john dykstra and jerome chen who discuss more specific details of the effects in the film . 
movie fans will enjoy the informative first commentary track , serious animation buffs will love the second one . 
now i know this is slightly off topic , but it is related specifically to this dvd so i must voice this now . 
one of the music videos on the disc is for a song called " i need to know " by a group called r angels . 
this video features four mid-teenage girls ( the singers obviously ) having a slumber party . 
the girls ask a ouija board " i need to know . . . 
who to do , who to do , who to do " as the song begins . 
they then sneak out of their house , and along the way they strike a pose and their slumber party pajamas are magically transformed into middle class streetwalker outfits . 
then they head to a party and dance suggestively with the guys while singing lyrics like " i'll be your pleasure all the time . . . 
just say the words that you'll be mine " . 
um . . . 
what the hell ? 
what does this have to do with stuart little ? 
how is this in any way a song suitable for a kids movie , let alone a video suitable for a kids movie on dvd ? 
when the video concludes , the words " to be continued " appear . 
oh i can't wait to see who they've slept with when the toy story 2 dvd comes out . 
kids won't care about most of the special features on this dvd , but those of us who can sometimes be turned into a " kid at heart " thanks to a winning family film sure appreciate them . 
this is the way to do dvd , a good movie loaded with great features at a reasonable cost . 
the di$ney people could learn a lot from columbia tristar . 
countries and legal systems that take the rule of law principle seriously , had forbidden judges and juries to make judgements in all matters that could involve them personally . 
luckily , movie reviewers aren't burdened with such legislation . 
otherwise , small pool of very special movies would be forever ignored by this reviewer . 
in case of star wars , 1977 science fiction epic by george lucas , the consequences would be even more severe , because that film is very special for tens of millions , if not hundreds of millions of fans . 
in any case , objectivity is something seldom seen in star wars reviews , because undisputed majority of reviewers rate it as one of the best , if not the best film of all times . 
those who don't usually have some difficulties in hiding their artistic snobbery . 
the author of this review must also concede his inability to use cold , objective standards in reviewing this film . 
like so many previous reviewers , i must note that i watched star wars for the first time twenty years ago , and that i remained enchanted by the experience ever since . 
perhaps it was childlike fascination with , until then unimaginable , wonders that happened long time ago , in a galaxy far away . 
or perhaps it was the rush i felt minutes before the opening shots , with my expectations already pumped up by serialised comic books and novelisation i had read before . 
anyway , watching of star wars was one of the most important movie going experiences of my life . 
and it was also unmatched for many years to come , because very few movies managed to have such a strong impact on me like george lucas' epic . 
star wars wasn't just important movie for me ( or the millions of fans who probably share the same sentiment ) . 
it was the defining moment in the history of modern cinema . 
until than , american motion picture industry was in a limbo ; social turmoil in 1960s practically destroyed the old hollywood , and new authors filled the void , mostly by using hollywood's financial and technical resources to create serious , " personal " or " artsy " movies . 
as a result , audience , traumatised of dark reality of vietnam and watergate , didn't want to see the same dark and serious content on the silver screen . 
george lucas with its science fiction epic was among the first to come into rescue . 
the audience responded with unprecedented enthusiasm , and huge financial success of the movie , later backed by supplement industry of toys , books , comics , role playing games and other merchandise , slowly began to change the face of hollywood . 
serious , adult movies with artistic ambitions faded into oblivion , and were replaced by industrial products of " blockbuster " philosophy . 
one of the biggest casualties of that trend was the science fiction movie genre . 
until 1977 , science fiction movies were mostly in b-production domain . 
in late 1960s , bigger budgets for science fiction didn't look so strange anymore , thanks to the great success of 2001 : a space odyssey . 
but the same success coincided with the surge of pesimism , and hollywood science fiction was as bleak as the rest of its production - mostly dark , dystopic movies . 
however , in 1977 star wars showed once and for all that this genre can be inspiration for popular movies , even among the audience that usually doesn't like it . 
as a result , seriousness in cinematic science fiction began fading away , although some good , dark and cult quality sf and continued to be filmed until early 1980s . 
after that , science fiction continued to be considered a synonym for family entertainment . 
ironically , the man responsible for star wars was in its time considered to be member of " new hollywood " generation of young movie authors who made " artsy " and " personal " films in early 1970s . 
george lucas established himself with the dystopic sf movie thx 1138 , and nostalgic drama american graffiti . 
both movies were considered " personal " in its time , despite latter one becoming very popular . 
in a sense , star wars is an also very " personal " film , and the thorny way to the final production shows that commercial considerations were against it , not for it . 
but unlike many " personal " movies of the era , its " personality " was in line with the wishes of the general audience . 
the plot , set " a long time ago , in a galaxy far away " , begins in a time of civil war . 
the evil empire is threatened by rebels who want to restore the old republic . 
in order to quash any opposition , the empire had built death star , superweapon powerful enough to destroy whole planets . 
the information about death star , acquired by rebel intelligence , is being transported by princess leia organa ( carrie fisher ) when her ship gets intercepted by imperial cruiser . 
princess is arrested by imperial warlord darth vader ( played by david prowse and voice by james earl jones ) , but the information is being sent to nearby desert planet of tatooine via two humanoid robots - c3po ( anthony daniels ) and r2d2 ( kenny baker ) . 
those two robots are sold to the family of luke skywalker ( mark hamill ) , young restless man who wants to leave his farm and become space pilot . 
his adventure begins when r2d2 escapes , because the information must reach mysterious local hermit obi wan kenobi ( alec guiness ) . 
old man is actually the last surviving jedi knight , member of the ancient order that defended republic through the use of mystical force . 
after some hesitation , luke agrees to join obi wan in his mission to save the princess , while the old man would teach him the ways of the force . 
their small band comes to the colourful spaceport of moss eisely , where they hire the spaceship owned by rogue pilot han solo ( harrison ford ) and his furry sidekick chewbacca ( peter mayhew ) . 
critics who don't like the movie , especially those who can't forgive lucas for his contribution to the quashing of " new hollywood " , are prone to point the lack of originality . 
on the surface , they might be right ; lucas himself admits that he found a lot of inspiration in the lore of old hollywood - westerns , wwii aviation movies , old sf cliffhanger serials of the 1930s and 1940s ; yet the most obvious element would be akira kurosawa's samurai classic the hidden fortress . 
on the other hand , those who had spent last two decades studying the movie to death would say that the inspiration for star wars went even further - into collective subconscious of western civilisation ( hinted by some mild tolkien references ) . 
the others would find the author's element within the story - star wars could be seen as an anti- establishment film ; young , long-haired , easy going , nature-loving heroes are fighting against old , uptight and oppressive forces who use supertechnology in most demonic purposes . 
even out of its historical or social context , star wars is an impressive as a strictly technical piece of the seven art . 
george lucas' direction is very good , with the clever editing and a well-paced segments between action and dramatic buildup . 
characters are well-drawn and deliver all the necessary ingredients , both for the space opera and hollywood blockbuster . 
we have a " coming-of-age " hero , damsel-in-distress ( somewhat toned down due to the popular feminist trends of the time ) , reluctant helper , benevolent mentor , diabolical villain and , finally , comic relief in form of two non-human characters . 
some of the actors are very good - alec guiness in his most famous role to date , james earl jones whose voice is enough to cause unease , peter cushing as an incarnation of pure evil in human form . 
unfortunately , the same can't be said for the main leads - among the main trio of mark hamill , carrie fisher and harrison ford , only the last one had the character three-dimensional enough to launch his further acting career . 
the thing that looked like the most important segment of star wars phenomena during its initial release was the new level of special effects technology . 
often comparisons with 2001 : space odyssey , another ground-breaking sf film , were citing the sheer number of effects as a proof of the lucas' superiority over kubrick . 
however , the special effects by john dykstra and john stears are indeed impressive , even after two decades ( although 1997 special edition did improve them significantly ) , yet they aren't the most remembered trademark of the movie . 
that honour should definitely go to the " oscar " -winning soundtrack by john williams , whose work on star wars is probably the brightest gem in his brilliant career . 
newer generations of viewers might be somewhat deprived of the enchantment that still holds those lucky enough to witness star wars original release . 
yet , even if they are immune to the george lucas' magic they should watch this film nevertheless , perhaps only to become familiar with something that is essential part of contemporary culture . 
frequency n . , 
the number of times a specified phenomenon occurs within a specified interval as the number of repetitions of a complete sequence of values of a periodic function per unit variation of an independent variable ? etc 
don't worry . 
when watching the thriller frequency , you won't have to know what the heck frequency means . 
the premise , although it may sound complex , is very basic on the big screen . 
a new york cop , john , ( jim caviezel ) finds a radio in his house , which allows him to communicate with his new york firefighter father , frank , ( dennis quaid ) who died thirty years ago . 
immediately john warns his father that he will die trying to stop a fire in an abandoned warehouse . 
when frank takes his advice and survives the accident he wasn't supposed to , the two eventually realize that by changing that one moment in the past , they have created a whole new future in which a serial killer murders john's mother and nine other women . 
it is now up to john and frank to use their special connection and save thirty years ago to make present time a better place . 
 ( i told you that wasn't confusing ? ) . 
overall , i was very pleased with frequency . 
it's occasional sappy moments perfectly synchronized with its suspenseful serial killer scenes . 
i usually don't buy those cheesy " i love you dad " segments in movies , but this one surprisingly satisfied me . 
maybe because the plot is so creative and universal that i believed that this is how most people would act when talking to a dead relative . 
frequency's creepy premise left me thinking once the film ended , what if ? 
what would i do ? 
would i help my own family or save a historical figure from being assasinated ? 
or stop some kids from shooting other kids ? 
or buy stock from yahoo ! ? 
 ( a character in the film does the latter with humorous consequences ) . 
frequency also reminded me of the fantastic back to the future . 
both share that " change the past slightly , and you'll change the future heavily " warning . 
the changes between the present and the past , such as different newspaper headlines or people disappearing and reappearing in photographs , are very similar . 
both are also wonderful feel-good family films that can attract to a number of generations . 
the only difference worth noting is that frequency's final scene doesn't set up a possibility for a lucrative sequel already in the making . 
there are some problems with the film though . 
first , there is a major flaw in the story towards the end that is somewhat distracting ( email me if you have seen the movie and want to know what i think it is ) . 
the plot must have confused even the filmmakers who frequently ( no pun intended ) switch from 1969 to 1999 while telling the story . 
another problem is that the supporting cast , including noah emmerich and andre braugher , are underused . 
while in the film , which is not enough , the aforementioned actors steal every scene they are in . 
frequency was a pleasant surprise for me and the audience i saw it with who cheered at the end . 
even if you know what is going to happen or if you think the preview ruined the movie for you , like it almost did for me , check this movie out . 
you may be surprised as well . 
 " psycho meets the exorcist with no holds barred " . 
a blurb like that sounds like desperate publicity for some low budget , third rate rip-off . 
but no , this tacky plug comes from the poster for suspiria , perhaps italian horror director dario argento's most consistently successful film . 
what impresses most in re-watching this surrealistic , supernatural thriller is that argento's directorial flair and stylish visuals are matched by a near-fully coherent narrative . 
screenplays have always been his achilles heel ; confusing subplots , gaping holes , totally illogical incidents and reactions . 
no question : argento has always been a better director than a writer . 
fortunately , he gets the plotting pretty well right with suspiria , taking his cue from a book by thomas de quincey called " suspiria de profundis " . 
the film's storyline suffers from no major lapses in logic , provided one can accept the premise of a ballet school being a front for a coven of witches . 
jessica harper plays an american who travels to germany to further her studies in dance . 
arriving at the school late at night in driving rain , she sees a girl leave and run into the storm in a clearly distressed state . 
what happens next - and i don't make the comparison lightly - is a murder sequence that for intensity , shock value and sheer directorial flair ranks alongside alfred hitchcock's infamous shower scene in psycho . 
it's quite possibly a homage to hitchcock , but with its baroque sets , graphic gore and brilliantly chaotic musical accompaniment by the gothic rock group goblin , this stunning sequence remains very much argento's own . 
though nothing else quite equals the intensity of suspiria's opening 15 minutes , the film continues to be never anything less than engrossing as harper begins her own investigations and slowly comes to realise this is no ordinary ballet school . 
we meet an assortment of slightly sinister characters , most notably the head ballet teacher played by alida valli in another one of those delicious sour-old-matriarch-from-hell roles she does so well . 
several more violent murders ensue , including a startling scene in a deserted square where a blind man is . . . well , i wouldn't want to spoil things now , would i ? and the film's climax , staged amid secret corridors and hidden rooms , has a gothic ghoulishness that's most impressive . 
the english language versions of most argento movies usually suffer trimming , and not just for the violence - deep red and phenomena , for example , have been appallingly hacked about . 
fortunately , the cuts to suspiria ( about 7 minutes in this version ) have not adversely affected the film . 
the dubbing of the italian actors into english is quite competently done , too , excepting one appalling and unintentionally hilarious effort with a conversation between harper and a professor about the history of witchcraft in the region . 
and the soundtrack ? 
it is interesting to imagine what power the film would have lost if it had been scored by someone else . 
as it stands , the use of goblin's music in suspiria is outstanding . 
apparently , argento played the soundtrack on location while filming so the actors could hear the music as they acted out their parts . 
a stereo video player adds greatly to the viewer's overall experience . 
even better , see suspiria in a cinema , where you'll get the added bonus of widescreen . 
and the colours ! 
deep reds , eerie blues , a superb use of shadow and contrast . 
the cinematography of luciano tovoli , whose more recent credits include reversal of fortune and single white female , is uniformly superb . 
a nod also must go to production designer giuseppe bassan for his wonderful baroque interiors . 
these kinds of settings are crucial to the atmosphere of argento's more surreal excursions , the other most notable example being inferno ( 1980 ) on which bassan also worked . 
suspiria is the film that broke dario argento into the major league of european directors , and it is fully deserving of its cult status . 
the gore is at times a little excessive and overstated - that's always been one of argento's shortcomings - but overall this is a fascinating , compelling example of italian horror . 
jackie brown entered theaters with little fanfare and a lot of expectation . 
even though advance publicity on this one was fairly limited , the audiences waited for the showings with heightened anticipation . 
this is , after all , the first movie quentin tarantino has directed since the highly touted pulp fiction . 
to say he has been inactive in between would be to tell a falsehood , since he has been involved in such projects as destiny turns on the radio , desperado , four rooms , and from dusk 'til dawn . 
he was also called in at the last minute to help punch up the screenplay for crimson tide . 
 ( i'm willing to wager the debate over which silver surfer is the only true silver surfer was penned by him . ) 
tarantino contributed on and off screen to these films , but never took the director's helm . 
nearly four years since gaining notoriety on the hollywood scene and making john travolta a star once more , tarantino returns with a film he can call his own . 
the film opens up with an homage to the graduate , with jackie brown ( pam grier ) on one of those airport people movers as the credits are displayed in front of her . 
jackie is a flight attendant for air cabo , which flies back and fourth between los angeles and cabo san lucas . 
this makes jackie a convenient cash courier for gun dealer ordell robbi ( samuel l . jackson ) who is currently keeping his money stashed in mexico . 
however , while bringing fifty thousand dollars back into the u . s . for ordell , jackie is apprehended by fbi agent mark dargus ( michael bowen ) and atf agent ray nicolet ( michael keaton ) , who catch her not only with the money , but with a bonus of a couple of ounces of illicit drugs . 
jackie didn't know they were in the package with the cash , but that's of no consequence to the authorities , who threaten jackie with a couple of years hard time if convicted . 
of course , dargus and nicolet are just using the sentence to get jackie to turn over the big fish , ordell . 
ordell uses honest bail bondsman max cherry ( robert forster ) to get jackie out of jail , but while max is immediately attracted to her , jackie is more concerned about her immediate safety , since ordell killed the last one of his operatives who got picked up by the police . 
sure enough , ordell shows up at jackie's apartment that evening and tries to silence jackie for good , but she " borrows " max's pistol and manages to turn the tables on ordell . 
instead of closing the irony circle and relocating a bullet from the pistol's chamber to ordell's head , jackie proposes a deal . 
since ordell wants to get his money out of mexico , jackie will get back up to her old tricks and be a courier for him once more , but this time for a more substantial fee : fifteen percent of ordell's half million dollars . 
with a gun in his face , how can ordell not agree ? 
by itself , this premise might have been interesting enough to carry the film . 
however , we are also introduced to a number of double crosses which make us pay attention and think . 
jackie claims to be bringing the money in for ordell , but she's also making a deal with the feds as well as with max . 
the film throws us off every once in a while by leading us to believe the deal we thought was authentic is actually a sham , but it is in no way done to the extent that we feel jerked around . 
instead , it's actually a nice departure from the predictability which is prevalent in so many of today's movies . 
at least this film has a little imagination . 
most of the performances in jackie brown are above par . 
pam grier , of whom i had never taken notice before , plays jackie with a mix of confidence and vulnerability which makes her character believable . 
samuel l . jackson has a kind of mesmerizing quality about him as he handles himself in situations where you know he is in total control . 
robert forster is thoroughly likable because he comes across as such an honest guy , trying to do his best . . 
never mind that he belongs to a profession where sneaking into a guy's apartment to zap him with a stun gun is simply a matter of course . 
he's just so down-to-earth , the nature of his job really doesn't occur to us , even when we're shown him bringing a handcuffed woman to prison , or when we see the tools of his trade . 
in supporting roles are robert de niro as louis gara , a recently paroled friend of ordell's , and bridget fonda as melanie , one of the girls ordell keeps around town . 
unfortunately , de niro is basically wasted as his lines are few and far between , and then they are mostly clipped sentences . 
in this film , he's not really de niro , but stereotypical de niro , uttering things like , " little bit , " and " pretty much . " 
fonda , on the other hand , plays the slightly spaced-out melanie with satisfactory relish and cuteness , such that even when she is annoying louis , we are taking her side . 
as is characteristic of any film in which tarantino has had a hand , the dialog is quick and snappy . 
it grabs our attention and is actually interesting , and in many respects , this makes jackie brown a film which needs few visuals ; the lines are a form of art in and amongst themselves . 
don't count tarantino out when it comes to using the camera , however . 
there's a scene where max is unwittingly watching a dry run of a money exchange , and he's not really sure what's happening , but by composing the scene just so , his realization of what's going on is felt simultaneously by the audience . 
we look at the screen and think , " gee , that's clever , " and then think the same thing about how the film induced us into that wonderful feeling of catching on . 
although tarantino isn't afraid to drag out a shot for dramatic effect , it unfortunately works to varying degrees in this film . 
there are shots where a character is simply driving , and we watch this person and somehow get an idea of what is going on in his or her head . 
this is a tribute to both direction and acting . 
however , there is at least one other scene where we follow jackie through a mall , and she is looking for something ; desperately looking for something . 
we get the idea of the frantic nature of her search , but we follow her for so long that we end up not really caring about what she's looking for , but instead hoping she'll just stop . 
overall , viewing jackie brown is time spent well . 
some flap has already been made about the language used in the film , but it's really not much worse than many of the other movies out there today . 
in fact , one might even be able to say that the way in which these " offensive " words are employed almost cause them to parody themselves and therefore transcend their own offensiveness . 
go see the film and see what i mean . 
directed by : pixote hunt , hendel butoy , eric goldberg , james algar , francis glebas , gaetan & paul brizzi conducted by : james levine composed by : ludwig van beethoven , ottorino respighi , george gershwin , dmitri shostakovich , camille saint-saens , paul dukas , sir edward elgar , igor stravinsky rated : g scripture references : 1 samuel 16 : 23 , ephesians 5 : 19 , 1 chronicles 15 : 15-16 
in 1940 , walt disney released a filmed experiment . 
fantasia was a blend of two art forms : classical music and animation . 
while it was not immediately popular with the audiences of its day , it has since become recognized as something of a classic . 
according to the program notes , it was mr . disney's intention to have fantasia be a continual work in progress . 
sixty years later , thanks to the ongoing efforts of walt's nephew , a new fantasia is being released . 
it was not only worth the waiting , it is evidence to just how far animation has come during the past half-decade . 
with seven new sequences and one old favorite , fantasia 2000 exhibits an imagination and respect for its art form that is absent from most other feature films . 
like the original , fantasia 2000 will more than likely bore the very young , although there is more narrative appeal in this newer version and the segments appear to be substantially shorter , perhaps a nod to the shorter attention span of the studio's primary audience . 
ranging from the silly to the sublime , each segment is preceded by a short , humorous introduction or interstitial by a guest celebrity host , steve martin ( bowfinger ) being the first and most effective . 
these are quickly forgotten as conductor james levine leads the chicago symphony orchestra through the musical program which , along with the images drawn by the disney team of animators , is thoughtfully and beautifully brought to a stunning synthesis . 
fantasia 2000 is being released exclusively in the giant-screened imax theaters , making for a unique viewing experience . 
there is enough variety in the program to provide something enjoyable for everyone and surely , people will exit the theaters with their own personal favorites . 
for me , that would have to be the jazz age story of four unconnected and discontented people living in nyc who , unknowingly , help each other realize their dreams . 
drawn in the style of caricaturist al hirschfeld and inspired by george gershwin's rhapsody in blue , the music and images are blended perfectly resulting in a product greater than the sum of its two parts . 
children will like the short piece set to carnival of the animals by camille saint-saens . 
here , a goofy looking flamingo irritates the rest of the flock with his yo-yo playing antics . 
they will also giggle as donald duck , playing noah's assistant , tries to load the animals into the ark to the familiar strains of pomp and circumstance by sir edward elgar . 
 ( while the depiction is not biblically accurate , it is entertaining and might be excuse enough to familiarize ourselves with the true record by reading what is written in genesis 7 . ) 
a positive note is that the studio has avoided any segment which is as perversely dark as nihgt on bald mountain upon which the original film ended . 
there are some images based upon fantasy such as the flying whales in respighi's pines of rome or images which have their roots in mythology such as the ethereal creatures which tell the story of nature's cycle of life , death , and rebirth in igor stravinsky's firebird suite . 
but the stories they tell are uplifting , containing nothing too frightening for our younger children . 
the darkest segment , spiritually speaking , actually belongs to the only holdover from the original fantasia , mickey mouse in the sorcerer's apprentice by paul dukas . 
but overall , the emotions evoked from fantasia 2000 are positive ones , being full of hope and promise . 
music has an impact which can be undeniably felt , capable of leading the listener to emotional peaks and inspirational highs simply not attainable through other mediums . 
it is no wonder that the levites , as the priestly tribe of the old testament , were also the appointed musicians . 
if fantasia 2000 is able to introduce a new audience to music which inspires and exalts , it will have done an incredible service . 
ingredients : little orphan boy , rural grandparents , mountains , native american lore 
synopsis : in this loving film portrayal of an idyllic and pivotal time that a young boy spends with grandpa and grandma , the self recollections of an unseen narrator focus on his world view as a tennessee orphan boy learning of his heritage through his grandparents . 
the setting is after the first world war , during the great depression years . 
a nine-year-old orphan named little tree ( joseph ashton ) is taken in and taught the wondrous ways of the woods by his caucasian moonshiner grandpa ( james cromwell ) and his native american grandma ( tantoo cardinal ) in the wilderness of the mountains of tennessee . 
here little tree learns an almost magical appreciation for nature and farm life - - and experiences beautiful and wondrous things such as the sunrise . 
everything is miraculous to a child . 
but it all comes crashing down for the boy when the u . s . government forcibly takes custody away from grandpa and grandma , and forces little tree to attend the notched gap boarding school , a kind of internment camp where multiracial cherokee kids are indoctrinated to dress , pray , speak , and think like white people or face solitary confinement and corporeal punishment . 
through his childhood experiences , little tree learns lessons about love , race , life , death , people , nature , and folk wisdom . 
opinion : this excellent , excellent family movie . 
it is one of those priceless screen gems that nobody knows about because it's not highly advertised . 
you won't find any formula schlock , cutesy characters , canned spirituality , sequel teasers or commercial tie ins , but you will find the education of little tree to be a refreshing , impeccably acted , original , wonderful , and touching film . 
take the whole family and bring a box of tissues for the tearjerkers . 
this one's as good as old yeller . 
disney cements their place in the forefront of feature animation with the release of their latest animated adventure , mulan . 
while it adheres a bit too close to the disney formula to be perfect , it is nonetheless an entertaining film for both kids and adults . 
fa mulan ( ming-na wen , singing : lea salonga ) wants nothing more than to be a dutiful daughter and honor her family . . . it's 
just that she doesn't quite fit in with the chafing customs of her time . 
while most girls her age are trying to quietly and demurely seek the approval of the local matchmaker ( miriam margoyles ) , mulan would prefer speaking her mind . 
but there is trouble on the horizon . 
the evil huns , led by shan-yu ( miguel ferrer ) , are invading china . 
the emperor ( pat morita ) has decreed that each family must donate one man to serve in the army . 
the only male in mulan's family is her father , fa zhou ( soon-tek oh ) , who , old and with a bad leg , honorably accepts his fate . 
mulan , on the other hand , decides to save her father's life . . . by 
secretly masquerading as a man and taking his place on the battlefield . 
mulan , under the assumed name of ping , appears at camp where she , along with the other bumbling recruits , yao ( harvey fierstein ) , chien-po ( jerry tondo ) and ling ( gedde watanabe ) , are trained in the art of war by captain shang ( b . d . 
wong , singing : donny osmond ) . 
but she's not alone in her tasks . . . in 
typical disney fashion , she has three animal companions : her horse khan , a lucky cricket crickey , and a pint-sized " guardian " dragon called mushu ( eddie murphy ) . 
much like the gargoyles in the hunchback of notre dame , the humor in mulan is lukewarm and doesn't flow well with the rest of the more serious story . 
sure , some occasional comic relief is welcome , particularly in a film geared for the younger set , but mulan overdoes it . 
the overdose of humor turns what could have been a powerfully great film into a good , but schizophrenic experience . 
but , that commentary aside , this is a very well made film ( which makes the formulaic additions all the more regrettable ) . 
the animation is on par with some of disney's best . 
the story itself is interesting , and the action scenes are awe-inspiring . 
the musical score to the film is enjoyable , though , as has been the case with disney's recent work , the songs are mostly forgettable . 
at least , we're only subjected to four of them this time around . 
mulan boasts the highest death toll of any disney cartoon to date . 
most of the killing is off-screen and it's all highly depersonalized ( there's nothing to compare with the death of mufasa or bambi's mom ) . 
there's nothing graphic , and the film resides snugly inside a g rating . 
children will probably have more questions about the restrictive ancient customs than of the slaughter of armies . 
it's ironic that a film concerned with bucking tradition is hampered because of its strict adherence to disney tradition . 
if the filmmakers had the guts to lessen the humor , ax the compulsory songs , and remove the obligatory ( and somewhat unrealistic ) romance , they could have had a classic on their hands . 
instead , they merely deliver a very good time at the movies . 
capsule : the world will come to an end at midnight . 
everyone knows it and must make a final peace with the last hours of their lives . 
this is an intelligent science fiction film with no special effects , just personalities and ideas . 
 , high +2 ( -4 to +4 ) 
- it is the last night of the planet and several different people are reacting each in their own way to the end . 
the film covers 6 pm to midnight . 
the main character is patrick played by david mckellan who also wrote and directed . 
- reminiscent of on the beach . 
but much more so of a story richard matheson wrote , " the last day . " 
 ( p . s . 
on rereading the 1953 matheson , this film is almost a loose adaptation of that story . 
the similarities may be mere coincidence , but they are numerous and they are very striking . ) 
- us release may be problematical . 
the title is lackluster and non-memorable , though very appropriate when you know about the film . 
also provincial americans may not care about the end of the world coming to toronto . 
they probably would feel it would not affect them . 
perhaps a pbs release would be possible . 
- patrick's family has declared it christmas and are hurt that the ( adult ) children will not spend the whole evening with them . 
- grocery stores mostly looted . 
it seems though that one of everything is left . 
- some people continue business as usual , some want sex , some react with religion , some riot . 
some people are in total denial . 
- much comedy , much drama . 
- very canadian cast . 
- it does not get dark . 
it is just always daytime . 
- radio playing " last night i didn't get to sleep at all . " 
how appropriate . 
- david cronenberg as a kind of bland functionary manager at the gas company . 
genvieve bujold as french teacher visiting former student . 
- science fiction film with no special effects , cost about two million dollars . 
- the person you have been thrown together with by chance becomes the most important person to you for the rest of your life . 
- why would it be so precisely at midnight ? 
what about other time zones ? 
what is the nature of what is destroying the world ? 
the rich man's wife is one of those movies like final analysis or body double , where the story and characters are so one-dimensional and contrived that you know you shouldn't be enjoying yourself . 
but somehow , the movie just tries so hard that you begin to forgive it and get into the swing of things . 
not that it's bad , it's just that it's been done before ; and better , in my opinion . 
i realize that this is going to sound pretty bizarre , but it's probably the best analogy that i can come up with right now ; you know how when you see a spider or something in your toilet , striving helplessly to get out , and instead of just flushing him , you end up kind of rooting for the little guy ? 
that's basically how i felt about this movie . 
i mean , it's not very good , but it's not completely bad either . 
the wife of the title is josie potenza ( played nicely by halle berry ) . 
she is married to tony ( christopher mcdonald . . . you 
know , the guy who looks like joe piscapo ) , a really stressed-out businessman who drinks way to much and doesn't give josie the attention she deserves ( * cough , cough * ) . 
thus , she is driven into the arms of another man , jake golden ( clive owen ) . 
near the beginning of the film , josie decides to try and work things out with tony by dumping jake and going on a vacation to a remote cabin in the woods . 
once there , however , tony has to leave almost immediately due to business details ( i'm still not quite sure what line of work he's in ) . 
making the best of her situation , josie stays there and begins making the rounds at the local bars . 
one night , she meets a stranger named cole ( peter greene , finally getting a meaty role ) . 
they have dinner together , and eventually , both josie and the audience start to realize that cole is homicidal . 
after learning that she is not happily married , cole offers to " take care " of the problem . 
managing to escape from the psychotic maniac , josie returns home and starts a reconciliation with her estranged and very wealthy husband . 
but then one night , cole shows up . . . 
and here is where the fun begins . 
from this point on , it's going to be a no-holds- barred cliche-fest , ripping off every movie from strangers on a train to the usual suspects . 
this is why most critics panned this movie when it first came out . 
and for the most part , they're right ; the rich man's wife has nary one original bone in it's body . 
but who cares ? 
if you're looking for good ol' dumb suspense movie , you can't do much better than this . 
and if you suspense buffs aren't already sold , it has a killer of an ending too . 
with a team of 200 graphic artists and animators working on this first film production from game developer squaresoft's square pictures , final fantasy , inspired by the top-selling game franchise , is visually awe-inspiring and groundbreaking . 
no doubt , you have never seen anything like this film , and the hyperbolic fanfare surrounding its release is absolutely deserved . 
but why does such a tremendous feat of eye candy have to be weighted down with a problematic story , wooden dialogue and generally uncharismatic voice acting ? 
obviously , the primary goal of the film is to stun and amaze audiences with extremely sophisticated cgi . 
everything you see in the film is rendered in great detail : individual threads in the fabric , individual strands of hair swaying , wrinkles and pimples on skin , incredible water effects . 
overall , the expressions and lip movements fairly accurately match the emotions and dialogue ; and the times when they don't sync perfectly really stand out , since the animation is usually so dazzling . 
but you won't spend much time dwelling on those gaffes -- as soon as you catch one , the next stellar monster or effect will have you muttering , " wow . . . " 
like the series of games , final fantasy's plot and characters have little to do with its predecessors , outside of being born from the same japanese mastermind , hironobu sakaguchi . 
it's the year 2065 , and humans are prisoners in caged cities of their own making that guard them from an outside world now overrun with deadly alien " phantoms . " 
whenever a human comes in contact with the ghostly visitors , the often-invisible beings pass through the body and wrench out its soul ( for some unexplainable reason ) . 
while many humans agree with a plan by monomaniacal general hein ( james woods ) to blast the aliens with a " zeus cannon , " dr . aki ross ( ming-na ) and dr . sid ( donald sutherland ) plan to build a " wave " using eight collected " spirits " to counteract the phantoms and kill them off . 
while the images serve the sci-fi aspect of the film well , the storytelling doesn't . 
it's unfortunate , because the plot seems so intricately thought out . 
perhaps it was far too complex and enormous to be entirely incorporated into the script . 
some could blame this weakness on the fact that it was a japanese concept translated to english , except two americans wrote the screenplay . 
nevertheless , the end result is an elaborate story complicated by confusing holes . 
why do these aliens feed on souls ? 
if they can pass through bodies and ships , how can humans hurt them with guns ? 
what is so special about the " spirits " that they would create a force strong enough to destroy the aliens ? 
worse yet , the dialogue is scripted to be either like a science-heavy star trek episode , an installment of die hard , or a sappy love story , depending on who's doing the talking . 
for the most part , it's bearable considering the genre , but tedious speeches and cheesy lines don't do anything to help the actors and can get annoying in the longer scenes . 
the only exception is steve buscemi as pilot neil fleming , who always has great cracks during tense moments . 
but , when the lights come up and the credits roll , you're more likely to be remarking on how fantastic the film looked . 
there's no question that the roughly 33 million people who have bought at least one final fantasy game will be eager to see this movie , and so should anyone who enjoys being floored by the best cg animation ever put to film . 
you'd be living in a fantasy world of your own if you expected much more . 
ladies and gentlemen , 1997's independence day is here ! 
it's title : starship troopers . 
and surprisingly , it is more entertaining than id4 . 
i realize that i gave last year's sci-fi hit a 4 star rating , but i was under the spell of the powerful first hour . 
after subsequent viewings , i feel that independence day really wasn't as great as it seemed--though i still give it a positive review . 
starship troopers , on the other hand , has a mocking sense of humor , knowing perfectly well how ridiculous it may seem . 
as a result , starship troopers is a more exciting , energetic , and lively science fiction film . 
in fact , i probably could never get tired of watching this film . 
starship troopers is very reminiscient of star wars , another kick-ass space opera which reinvented the sci-fi drama altogether . 
while starship troopers is no star wars , it comes quite close , and the easiest assessment would be to call this film : " the 'star wars' of the 90s . " 
am i being to generous to this film ? 
perhaps , but when a science fiction film comes along that can mix humor and romance , effectively , into the warring races . 
in essence , this is the science fiction equivolence of pulp fiction . 
the easiest way to write a review of this film would be to compare it to other science fiction films , and i may have to . 
starship troopers is not quite an original film persay , but director paul verhoeven gives the film a " kick-the-aliens'-asses " style . 
id4 had this same style , except it was forced , most likely the cause of will smith having a major role . 
this new " star wars " has a very simple , basic plot : mankind vs . an alien species . 
the alien species in question here is the bugs , a seemingly advanced civilization of arachnid-type insects . 
however , the underlying morals of starship troopers are fleshed out with deadly accuracy . 
sometimes the morals are buried by the bloody violence and intense action scenes , but during quiet moments , we realize that starship troopers has something to tell us about our civilization . 
more than likely , these morals will be overpowered and quickly forgotten by the time the movie ends . 
and they should be . 
i doubt verhoeven intended this film to be a thought-provoking film . 
this is an " event " film , but surprisingly above average . 
it is extremely refreshing to watch a sci-fi war film , and actually root for the human side ( something independence day never achieved ) . 
starship troopers begins with a satirical portrayal of those strange " join the army " ads . 
mixing a web-based interface , these summations of events are refreshingly original . 
stating , " would you like to know more ? " , 
these short news bulletins give the film an immediate sense of humor , and we know we should not take it seriously . 
however , we also witness the murder of several troopers in battle , in a gory , yet funny , way . 
after witnessing the slaughter , the film jumps back one year , to setup what we just saw . 
we are introduced to johnny rico ( casper van dien ) and carmen ibanez ( denise richards ) . 
rico flirts with carmen by sending her messages over computer terminals in school classrooms . 
however , carmen isn't as interested in rico as she is in becoming a pilot . 
however , another classmate , dizzy flores ( dina meyer ) , has her eye on rico . 
unfortunately , rico isn't interested in dizzy . 
this setup is rather cliched , as is the result of the setup , but it still is fun to watch . 
carmen signs up to become a starship trooper , and as a result , rico signs up . 
and as a result , dizzy signs up . 
everyone is assigned a certain position in the academy : carmen gets the pilot position she wanted , carl jenkins ( neil patrick harris ) , a psychic , gets a position in the training program , and rico is left in the lowest class of the starship troopers : the mobile infantry . 
the main story follows rico through his trials and relationships . 
in reality , i found myself watching a space version of " melrose place , " but with better special effects . 
an hour into the film , the war begins . 
a sense of tension grew in the audience i watched this film with . 
the first hour may have been a funny ( sometimes unintentionally ) setup , but we grew to care for the flat characters , because no matter how hard i tried not to like the characters , their gorgeous looks won me over ( call me superficial , if you must ) . 
following the training sessions , which had many dramas in themselves ( too many to mention here ) , the troopers are sent to war . 
the bugs live on the planet klendathu , a planet which consists of dirt and rock , and pretty much nothing else . 
many dramas occur during the war , until finally the troopers realize that their is something behind the bugs' attacks . 
a sort of intelligence which masterminds the defense . 
the troopers are ordered to locate the " brain " and capture it . 
i hopefully left the plot as vague as possible , because starship troopers is not about plot . 
it's about special effects and gory violence . 
director verhoeven , most known for his nudie film showgirls and basic instinct , returns to his sci-fi days , which gave us good films like total recall . 
verhoeven likes to push the envelope of the mpaa , but despite all the violence , the comic book feel gives the film a sense of falsehood . 
starship troopers is extremely violent , with more gore than this year's event horizon . 
the r rating is well deserved , and hopefully parents will not allow their 12 year old children to see it . 
my guess is that verhoeven's target audience is the 18 to 25 male group . 
the film has a testosterone level off the charts , with chiseled men and beautiful women . 
despite these superficial elements , starship troopers also creates a world which made star wars so successful . 
while watching the film , we never second guess the character's decisions because they seem perfectly clear . 
thankfully , no hero is punching aliens in the face , which gives the flat characters some depth for which we can identify with . 
the cast of starship troopers is quite annoying to begin with , but they soon grow on you . 
casper van dien has the chiseled facial features and tan skin which will make most girls swoon . 
to most guys , he will come across as artificial . 
fortunately , van dien is the worst of the cast , despite how hard he tries to come off as a real character . 
dina meyer does a much better job of fleshing out her character . 
her dizzy is extremely likeable . 
denise richards also does a good job , and her scenes are very well done . 
jake busey , gary busey's son , gives a wonderfully funny performance , and provides one of the biggest laughs of the film . 
neil patrick harris ( remember , he was doogie howser ) is a little wooden , and slightly out of place with the rest of the cast . 
however , he does give a good performance . 
michael ironside gives the best performance of the film as the teacher with one arm . 
his performance rises above the rest . 
perhaps it is because his character is the most developed , but i think it is just ironside's presence on screen . 
unfortunately , no particular cast member gives a star-making performance , which is too bad because the material here could have made many of the cast members stars . 
director verhoeven is the main star of the film . 
his direction is fast and unrelentless . 
he never slows down his pace , which makes for a wild ride . 
writer edward neumeier adapted the screenplay from the book by robert heinlein . 
the writing is usually very funny , and sometimes very corny . 
the dialogue is smart but not too smart . 
we aren't required to know everything , but some plot holes are left unanswered . 
thankfully we are not intended to notice , and we really don't ( except for one which lingered in my mind for quite a while ) . 
amazingly , with all the wars and romance going on , the screenplay manages to include some surprising governmental issues . 
in fact , these governmental changes seem fairly plausible , and this adds another layer to the story . 
the moral debate of the characters is quite surprising to find in a film of this genre , but what is even more surprising is the amount of humor included into all the carnage . 
i haven't laughed this loud , even in some comedies . 
oh , and the special effects are first rate . 
starship troopers is rated r for graphic sci-fi violence and gore , and for some language and nudity . 
believe me when i say this : don't take young kids to see this film . 
it is extremely violent . 
in fact , it is probably the most violent film out this year . 
however , if you are old enough ( over 17 ) to see it , starship troopers is guaranteed to entertain . 
it's been a long time since i have cheered for the heros , while also cheering for the bad guys . 
and still , it is my dream to see a sci-fi film in which the alien race destroys mankind , and take over the world . 
now that would be entertaining ! 
billed as a " feminist sex fantasy " , this spirited , imaginative and thoroughly engaging film by the award-winning canadian director cynthia roberts , is destined for extreme reactions . 
camille paglia enthusiasts will no doubt champion this heart-felt tale of the title character bubbles galore ( nina hartley ) , a porn-actress-turned-porn-producer who faces an uphill battle in her quest for sexual and economic independence . 
however , those in the andrea dworkin camp , will no doubt loathe the film's decidedly pro-porn stance . 
political considerations aside , however , this is a delightful lesbian love story as the film takes us on a whirlwind tour of bubbles' romantic entanglements with a naive and virginal young porn starlet dory drawers ( shauny sexton ) . 
in the backdrop , however is bubbles' loyal assistant vivian klitorsky ( tracy wright ) who pines longingly for the affections of her bubbly boss . 
this femme-butch-femme triangle is what provides the film with considerable humanity * and * sensuality . 
in addition to the romantic aspects of the story , bubbles is being stalked and terrorized by her ex-boyfriend godfrey montana ( daniel macivor ) , a slimy porn mogul who wishes to make her life as miserable as he can possibly make it . 
when his plans to sabotage her latest film fall through , he snaps and psychotically decides to kill her . 
these proceedings are presided over by a most heavenly presence . 
god herself - yes , in the world of this film , god , is most definitely a " her " - and a chorus of undulating , scantily-clad angels , have their most watchful and lustful eyes on the events as they unfold , adding a lovely fantasy element to this frothy concoction . 
this bright , colourful and deliriously sexy film is chock-full of great performances . 
making her dramatic debut , after appearing in over 300 triple x adult films , porn star nina hartley takes command of her role with considerable assurance and a screen presence which puts many other contemporary 'straight' actresses to shame . 
hartley has overwhelming star power , and one wonders why other non-triple-x producers haven't used her bountiful talents . 
it is also interesting to note that hartley appears in the recent release of " boogie nights " , a film which takes a far more traditional doom-and-gloom approach to the porn industry . 
making a cameo appearance in the role of god , former porn actress annie sprinkle , a true artist in her own right - gives the entire film an earthy , sensual glow and certainly solidifies and , by her very appearance , downright justifies the themes of the movie . 
the other performances are equally solid . 
daniel macivor appropriately chews up the scenery as the villainous godfrey and tracy wright lends able support with her complex role . 
shauny sexton , an erotic dancer and pin-up model , makes an impressive screen debut . 
overall , bubbles galore is a film which wears its politics on its sleeve and very proudly indeed . 
at one point , the title character declares that " instead of trying to save women from the sex trade , we should be working to ensure that the sex trade is a safe place for women to work " . 
the direction by cynthia roberts is daring and subversive . 
roberts is not afraid to plunge the otherwise straight-ahead and simple narrative into extended and extremely avant-garde montage sequences . 
the love scenes between the women are especially beautiful . 
the musical score by nicholas stirling blends cool jazz and lounge stylings , while the skilful cinematography by harald bachmann terrifically captures a blend of garish 70's porn and psychedelia . 
amazingly , this film appears to have received a good deal of its funding from a variety of canadian government cultural agencies . 
this speaks volumes towards the importance of state funding for culture , as one cannot imagine such an entertaining , original and vital film being made in a traditional setting where conformity and formula rule the day . 
bubbles galore seems to be making the film festival rounds and does not , at present , appear to have any traditional distribution in place , so keep your eye on the alternative film listings for this one . 
it's funny , sexy and subversive . 
and it shouldn't be missed . 
seen at the 21st portland international film festival 
film title : supermarket woman director : juzo itami country : japan 1997 cinematography : yonezo maeda music : toshiyuki honda cast : nobuko miyamoto , masahitko tsugawa , shiro ito , yuji miyake , akiko matsumoto super features : typical itami film . . . 
funny and pointed in its own way . 
if you don't care how and what the food you buy goes through in your local supermarket , then this film is not for you . . . . 
maybe it is better to ignore it , as this strong and biting satire , as only juzo itami can deliver , will give you an insight as to what some foods go through . 
having , in the past , made films that pulled every punch imaginable , from the family traditions ( the funeral ) , to taxes ( a taxing woman & a taxing woman returns ) , to the diabolical gangsters ( minbo ) , to hospitals ( the seriously ill ) , juzo itami , this time takes on the supermarkets' own war , to get the consumers . 
and while this film has its funny side , in the crazy situations that it creates , it also shows another side , which is very much the attitude of a corporate structure that is more concerned with its profits than it is with any customer . 
goro has a supermarket . 
and a competitor comes into the neighborhood , trying to take him out of business by providing less expensive prices for everything that is sold in the supermarket . 
bargains galore , its name , has in mind the closure of goro's humbler venue , so that in the end it can mark up its prices in any way it can . 
goro hires hanako , a housewife whose talents seem to be better suited to management , than they are in anything else . 
hanako , as she gets familiar with the operation , discovers many of the tricks of the trade , done by many of the elders in charge of each section of the market . 
and the procedures , are not always " fresh " food , but a new packaging and a new date , to try and convince the customers that quality is on the shelves . 
hanako's ideas take hold , starting with a few of the women that work in the supermarket , being that they do not even shop there at all . 
and hanako discovers along the way that a few giveaways here and there make a bit of a difference . 
if not cause some serious problems in the running of the store . 
a price error , forces them to give away eggs for very low prices , and causes the store a few hassles , but , it brought the people in , and everyone knows that these customers will buy a few other things . 
as the operation gets stronger , the competition also has trickery up its sleeve , and it has been undermining much of the operation by paybacks to one of the store managers , as well as the meat and fish elder supervisors . 
eventually these people are found out , and hanako has to tread slowly and carefully , until in the end they all have a showdown . 
and here , the truth and honesty win out , and even one of the elders decides to stay rather than go to work for the corrupt opponent . 
in the process , they also find that " freshness " ( with some very funny jokes on this word as well ) becomes a much more important tool than they imagined . 
with some very nice performances , in this hectic , and fast paced film , this film gives us a sitting of two hours that is satisfying in many ways , although a failed love story between goro and hanako does not come off much , even though towards the end it is suggested . 
but this would take away from the satire and its strengths . 
with food gags all over the place , the film lets you have it . 
and what fun it is . 
worth seeing . 
 ( editorial ) the director of this film , juzo itami , died shortly after the film was finished , and he left behind a legacy of comedy and satire that is rare , and uncompromising . 
we would wish that he had been able to make one about film making , of which he must have had a few stories to tell , but we will have to do with much of the japanese society , and its many errant ways . . . . 
not to say that these things do not happen anywhere else . . . . 
america is no less guilty of any of these subjects at all , should anyone have the guts to tackle it . . . 
we could learn something along the way , too . . . . 
worth seeing , specially , is a taxing woman and its follow up a taxing woman returns . 
the funeral is also good , although not as funny as the later films . 
tampopo is also very enjoyable . 
all four of these films are available in video , which means your best local site for foreign film may have them . . . 
ask for it . 
i can sum up first strike in one word : awesome . 
never in my life have i seen an actor as insanely dedicated as jackie chan . 
for the simple reason that he has performed his own stunts in his every movie he's ever appeared in , he should be awarded greatly . 
the same tom and jerry formula that was used to make chan's rumble in the bronx and supercop so entertaining can be found here as well . 
however , first strike was probably the most exciting out of the three , for the simple reason that practice makes perfect . 
his last two movies were almost like practice and this one was great . 
like rumble , this film is about the mafia , the former kgb . 
now chan must do battle in the freezing arctic temperatures of the ukraine against a group of very large bad men . 
the trailer for the film sums it up quite well . 
first strike is action-packed , but the fight scenes are so fast and furious , they almost have a witty , italian-like humor to them . 
jackie chan is a regular comedian . 
well , he's no eddie murphy , but he can really crack you up . 
for example , he is hanging off a roof and he humorously taunts his foes to come and get him , as he claims to be the korean 007 ( that's secret agent james bond ) . 
even the plot to this film improved above the others , as a sort-of twisted nuclear-weapon smuggling deal is botched and jackie takes the blame . 
but never fear , as the chinese mafia aids him in uncovering the truth behind the incident . 
with some of the most high-flying stunts and side-splitting comedy , first strike is a sure-fire hit that's guaranteed to draw some major , world-wide attention . 
 , 
as a devout atheist and an avowed believer in aliens , i have some idea of how ellie aroway ( jodie foster ) feels . 
but because my reasons for not partaking in religion are different than hers , i can't say that i do exactly . 
her reason is that she needs solid proof : there is no proof that god existed , so therefor she does not believe . 
ellie also believes in aliens , and has spent most of her life trying to prove they exist . 
how can she say she doesn't believe in god because of the lack of proof , and then say she believes in aliens , which are gereally less believed in than god without sounding like a hypocrite ? 
that's the catch-22 . 
when aliens from the star vega fax her some plans for a device to transport someone to them ( okay , well , they didn't really * fax * them . . . ) 
ellie wants to be the one to go , but because of her atheism she is denied the position . 
how dumb is that ? 
she discovers the transmitions , then she isn't allowed to go . 
well , because of a bomb and a psychopath ( jake busey ) , she * does * end up going , but not in the way that we would've thought . 
contact is based on a novel by carl sagan , who died during the filmmaking . 
it is the best alien movie since close encounters of the 3rd kind , and will end up being the best film of the year . 
its views of science and religion will no doubt aggrivate some , but will stimulate more . 
i'm glad at least one movie of the '90s can portray aliens in a psitive light , rather than a bunch of slimey beasts who will eat your insides and then put on your body . 
by now i figured i'd seen every alfred hitchcock film at least a half-dozen times -- not that i'm complaining . 
to call him the " master of suspense " is an understatement . 
the paradine case ( 1947 ) , admittedly one of hitchcock's lesser movies , turned out to be one i'd missed . 
this one , like all hitchcock films , is well worth savoring . 
the story opens with the rich mrs . maddalena anna paradine being arrested in her home for poisoning her blind husband . 
as mrs . paradine , alida valli plays an aloof but alluring woman of the world . 
to franz waxman's stark and moody music , we see the prison guards divesting her of her luxurious garments and jewels . 
stripped of her fine raiment , she becomes a commoner again , which , as it turns out , was what she was before she met her husband . 
 " a brief skirmish , and you'll be lunching at the savoy again , " anthony keane , her ultraconfident attorney tells her in their first meeting , predicting a fast and easy trial . 
gregory peck plays the successful and debonair barrister . 
 " she's no murderess , " he argues simplistically , smitten by her beauty . 
 " she's too fine a woman . " 
his attitude upsets his beautiful and increasing jealous wife , gay ( ann todd ) . 
unlike most hitchcock movies , which are centered on the thriller and the mystery , this one is more a romantic melodrama . 
typical is the scene in which gay flings her head back and shakes her hair while bathed in light . 
she deflects her husband's affections as she fears that he is beginning to fall in love with his client . 
the dramatic music then comes up high as the camera dwells on mrs . paradine's portrait nearby . 
in the relatively unsatisfying first half , little happens other than domestic squabbles and overtones of intense adulterous desires . 
to the sound of sweeping violins gay tells anthony that he must get mrs . paradine acquitted because , if mrs . paradine dies , his heart will go with her . 
if she is freed , he will be able to forget her . 
as part of the soap opera , a mysterious louis jordan plays mr . paradine's valet , who has had some not to be discussed relationships . 
charles coburn plays anthony's legal partner , sir simon flaquer . 
and charles laughton , who looks like coburn , is judge lord horfield . 
this being proper british society , they will all dine together at the judge's house not long before the case begins . 
court tv junkies will probably pick up the many differences , some subtle and others not , between the american and the british judicial systems . 
one , for example , of which i was not aware is that the barrister cannot speak to his own client during the recess if she is the process of testifying . 
one sometimes wonders what the academy is thinking when they make their oscar nominations . 
as the judge's wife , lady sophie horfield , ethel barrymore got a nomination for best supporting actress -- the film's only nomination -- for an inconsequential part with which she did little of merit . 
 ( so the big question is when does hitchcock make his obligatory walk-on ? 
at 37 minutes into the film , he leaves a train station carrying a large musical instrument case . 
don't miss it . ) 
in the second half the story finally comes alive when it gets into the courtroom . 
the great master shows his hand there as the tensions build as rapidly in the second part as they lay fallow in the first . 
watch how the camera angles are sometimes from the back and other times from way on high to set the exact tone for the trial's action . 
as anthony explains it , the simple case has only 3 possibilities : mr . paradine poisoned himself , mrs . paradine did it , or the valet did it . 
the end includes many devastating revelations and some nice twists so it is too bad the first half is so languid . 
the paradine case runs 1 : 53 . 
the picture is in black and white . 
it is not rated but would be pg for mature themes and would be fine for kids around nine and up if they are interested . 
it's wednesday , march 27 , and a murder investigation is underway in charlotte , south carolina . 
the crime : a young prostitute , elizabeth ( renee zellweger ) , has been brutally slain . 
one half of her severed body was found in a bag at the train station . 
the other half was discovered in a trunk at the harbor authority , miles away . 
the police duo of braxton ( chris penn ) and kennesaw ( michael rooker ) are strapped for leads . 
at the moment , they have only one possible suspect : wayland ( tim roth ) , a wealthy , unemployed genius who graduated summa cum laude from princeton and appears to be the least likely character to commit such a heinous act . 
that's the premise for deceiver , a new thriller from the pate brothers , jonas and josh , who made their mark on the film world two years ago at sundance with the movie the grave . 
deceiver plays out like a mind game between the intellectually superior wayland and the two not- so-bright cops ( captions early in the proceedings let us know that wayland's iq is 151 ; by contrast , kennesaw's is 122 and braxton's is 102 ) . 
the setting is a police interrogation room where a lie detector test is about to be administered . 
over three days , as wayland returns to answer more questions , the drama and tension among these three characters gradually escalates until , inevitably , it boils over . 
other plot elements are thrown in for good measure . 
wayland suffers from a peculiar kind of epilepsy that can , in stressful situations , render him virtually catatonic or extremely violent . 
braxton , a compulsive gambler , is deep in debt to a local syndicate . 
and kennesaw is haunted by a dark , abusive side that delights in terrorizing women , especially his wife ( rosanna arquette ) , whom he suspects of being unfaithful . 
the foibles and failings of these three are brought into the open as the mystery around elizabeth's death deepens and it becomes unclear who has the upper hand : the suspect or his questioners . 
deceiver , which mostly transpires in a dimly-lit room and involves a lot of smart dialogue , has the feel of a david mamet play : edgy , claustrophobic , and tense . 
the atmosphere is explosive , and some of pivotal moments of confrontation are riveting . 
deceiver has the power to grab an audience . 
unfortunately , in the end , it succumbs to the need to throw in one last , unexpected twist , and this is its undoing . 
for , while this surprise will certainly shock most viewers , it also stretches our credulity too much , and raises more questions than it answers . 
it's only an effective wrap-up if you don't think too carefully about its full implications . 
of course , the film as a whole plays fast and loose with reality and logic . 
police procedure is totally ignored and it's almost impossible to accept that any criminal investigation would or could proceed in this manner . 
but the real focus in deceiver is on character interaction , not plot details . 
deceiver only occasionally gets out of the police station , and those instances occur primarily during flashbacks featuring the prostitute . 
the pates employ a number of interesting techniques to present vignettes from elizabeth's final days and hours . 
the most intriguing of these is to use an unreliable narrator while underlining the discrepancies in his voice-over by visually showing what really happened . 
moments like this are too effective to be dismissed as gimmicks . 
the movie , obviously fashioned in the manner of classic film noir , drips atmosphere . 
there are some fascinating stylistic touches ; for example , although the setting is contemporary , all of the telephones are old-fashioned , rotary models . 
cinematographer bill butler is given an opportunity to use unconventional camera work to liven up deceiver's look . 
some of the things he tries ( mostly those that involve the contrast between light and shadow ) work exceptionally well , while others ( like any of several lazy susan shots ) seem more like unnecessary visual tricks . 
as wayland , tim roth gives the film's top performance , despite occasionally treading the tightrope between acting and overacting . 
roth makes us believe that wayland is both as brilliant and as troubled as he's supposed to be . 
the other two leads , chris penn and michael rooker , aren't as effective . 
both play their characters like familiar types . 
penn's performance is uninspired ; rooker's lacks subtlety . 
some of the best work is turned in by the supporting actors . 
renee zellweger , in a role that's miles away from her star-making turn in jerry maguire , brings a note of vulnerability and humanity to a part that could easily have become a caricature . 
rosanna arquette is solid as kennesaw's wife , and michael parks delivers several wonderful scenes as a psychiatrist who's entrusted with evaluating wayland's condition . 
one of the best things about deceiver is that it never talks down to the audience . 
plot points aren't hammered home , and , although the ending has its weaknesses , everything isn't spelled out in bold letters . 
the pates give audience members credit for having brains , which is an increasingly rare characteristic for film makers . 
occasionally gripping and never uninteresting , deceiver is a fine noir effort . 
on april 12th , 1912 , the most astonishing shipwreck in the history of the world occurred . 
on that fateful night , the titanic sunk . 
now , more than 50 years later , a film has been made . 
and what a film that is . 
james cameron's newest movie is a landmark in storytelling , emotion , and special effects . 
it starts in the present , where bill paxton and his band of scientists explore the depths of the ship's wreckage . 
exploring an old chest , paxton comes across a nude drawing of a young woman . 
the drawing is televised and the woman ( gloria stuart ) whose portrait the painting is of comes forward and slowly but surely , the ship's story is told . 
leonardo dicaprio stars as jack dawson , a young man with a sketch book , a heart of gold , an intelligent mind , and not much else . he wins his ticket aboard titanic in a poker game , and is the perfect match for rose dewitt bukater ( kate winslett ) . 
she grows to love jack , but seems unable to escape the slimy clutches of her arranged fiance' , cal hockley ( billy zane ) . 
the film takes its time , and by doing so , makes us care about its characters , and shows us the full aspects of human emotion . 
the leads shine ; there is no bad performance ; in fact , these do not seems like performances at all , but genuine people , trapped on the doomed vessel , facing certain death . 
watching this film , i was amazed at how vivid and real these situations feel : the time rose and jack spend together at a third-class-party ; the naivety that jack feels when he skecthes rose nude ; the terror felt by all onboard , as certain doom turns people into both cowards and heroes . 
this , the most expensive movie ever made , $200 million , is destined to make its profit back , and then some . 
it also has more emotion and warmth than any other film this year . . even this decade . 
it is also yet another first : the first $200 million dollar romance , and every critic in this country will agree that it was indeed , money extremely . . very 
 . . well 
spent . 
that thing you do ! , from first-time film director tom hanks , is an enjoyable tale about a fictional band , the wonders , that goes from a garage band to the band with the fastest selling album in the country . 
but , the question arrises , will the seduction of fame and fortune corrupt the band and lead them to become just another one-hit wonder , or will they stick together and become the next teen sensations ? 
the " oneders " , as they are originally known , have their first gig at a very small-time contest . 
jimmy , the lead singer , has written a catchy song and intends to play it at the contest . 
but , a short time before the contest begins , the current drummer becomes injured and a replacement is needed . 
enter guy patterson , skilled musician who currently works at his father's appliance store and is looking to break free from the restricting clutches that bind him . 
he seems to fit in well , until the group takes the stage . 
when they begin to play , guy's beat is much too fast and the pace is way off for the intended song . 
it looks as though the group is doomed to failure . 
but , the " new " song is a hit ! 
this leads to another gig , and soon enough , the group has an agent . 
he doesn't do too much for them , but they do get their song played on the radio . 
eventually , mr . white of playtone records approaches the group , and he informs them that they want to release a record . 
before you can say " billboard " , the band is now renamed " the wonders " and the members are speeding their way to fame . 
the gigs are getting better , their fame is increasing , and they have the fastest selling album in playtone records history . 
the band is invited to appear in a feature film , and , they then fly out to hollywood to appear on television . 
after the appearance on television , things start to fall apart . 
two of the members of the band pretty much disappear , and things are not working out well between jimmy and guy . 
will the band work it out , or will they split up and go on their own separate journeys towards success ? 
that thing you do ! , complete with a nifty original song that actually sounded authentic , is a fun and enjoyable movie that , although it doesn't become clear if it wants to be a comedy , drama , or romance , is a well-made look into the world of music . 
tom hanks' directorial debut was a good one and should lead to more work for him . 
synopsis : an attractive mute makeup artist , working on an ultra-cheesy slasher movie in moscow , witnesses the production of a brutal snuff film and is subsequently chased by really bad russians . 
meanwhile , the artist's sister and boyfriend clumsily try to save her . 
comments : mute witness came as a surprise to me the first time i watched it . 
drawn by the clever artwork on the video box , i rented the film expecting a complete turkey . 
mute witness , however , was original , offbeat , and well-made . 
it's one of those cool little finds that no one seems to know about . 
i've subsequently found it at most video rental places i visit , and it may be seen , on occasion , on the independent film channel . 
the first hour of mute witness is extremely tense , as billy , the quite believable mute heroine , sees members of the russian mob brutally kill a prostitute while filming an illegal snuff film . 
the rest of the film takes good advantage of billy's vulnerable position as a mute foreigner in moscow being pursued by powerful criminal figures . 
to throw a curveball into the fray , billy's sister karen and her filmmaking beau become bizarre figures of comic relief to offset several violent sequences in what are some genuinely funny scenes . 
a disappointingly trite ending and occasional comic blunders are the only two things which mar this otherwise suspenseful film . 
look for alec guinness ( obi-wan kenobi from the first star wars trilogy ) in a small role as the evil reaper . 
definately check this movie out ; although , as a word of warning , it does contain several scenes of rather grisly violence which certainly aren't for the squeamish . 
the grandfather of italian horror the late mario bava has credits in nearly 100 films and tv movies produced in italy between 1939 and his death in the early 80's . 
more practiced as a cinematographer than a director , bava nonetheless sat in the director's chair for beyond the door ii , the project which turned out to be his last full-length feature film . 
alongside the appalling zombie schlock of hacks like lucio fulci , beyond the door ii is simply a revelation . 
in his day bava was considered by most to be no great filmmaker , yet here he fashioned one of the finest italian horror movies of the 1970's . 
 ( note that the film has no connection with the 1975 exorcist-rip off behind the door , but for some unexplained reason was given this related title for release in the usa and australia . ) 
this story focuses on dora , a women set upon by a malevolent spirit that channels itself through her young son marco . 
the film opens with dora , her son and second husband bruno returning to a house by the sea that was the scene of her first husband's suicide and her subsequent trauma 7 years earlier . 
they hope to put the past behind them , but as small accidents start to befall dora - usually while bruno is away on business - she starts to suspect that marco ( played with uncanny ability by 8 year old david colin jr . ) is somehow involved in the strange goings on . 
to reveal any more of the story would be unfair . 
suffice to say that this artfully paced study of a woman suffering a nervous breakdown offers an intriguing plot , loads of atmosphere and solid acting , though the dialogue is somewhat weakened by the dubbing into english . 
bava coaches a surprisingly good performance from the usually wooden daria nicolodi , wife of famed italian horror director dario argento . 
her character is invested with sufficient depth to allow the audience real empathy with dora's troubled soul . 
the music by italian ensemble libra is also effective , mixing odd-sounding 70's rock with classic gothic piano sequences . 
and there is at least one moment - brilliantly engineered by bava - that is guaranteed to lift you ten feet out of your chair . 
yet for italian horror , the bloodletting here is surprisingly minimal . 
lamberto bava and francesco barbieri's script is more concerned with deeper , psychological terrors , with themes of guilt and suffering , with the notion that what we sow will shall - somewhere , somehow - eventually reap . 
scholars of the genre take note : beyond the door ii is stylish , chilling , and essential . 
based on the relatively unknown ( in comparison to spider-man ) marvel comic book , blade tells the story of half-vampire half-human ( played by wesley snipes ) who was born of a vampire's latest meal . 
now swearing vengeance against all vampires , blade hunts them all . 
his latest challenge is his biggest though . . . he 
must stop the vampire deacon frost ( played by stephen dorff ) from summoning the blood god and turning the rest of the world into vampires . 
admitedly , comic books are one of the least appreciated mediums , often viewed as juvenile by most standards , even seen as illiterate by some . 
judging by a series of poorly recieved ( financial and critical ) comic book based films ( such as batman and robin , steel , barb wire , the crow : city of angels , and the list goes on ) , one would come to the conclusion that comic books are the worst medium to translate into film . 
to some degree , i agree with this sentiment . 
having read comic books since the age of nine ( i'm 21 right now ) i can count the number of good comic book based movies ( not including japanese manga ) one hand : 1 : the crow ( 1994 ) , 2 : batman ( 1989 ) , 3 : superman , 4 : the mask , and now , #5 , blade . 
 ( " men in black " is not on this list because it is an extreme deviation from the original comic book ) 
why is this ? 
for the most part , it is because the filmmakers understand 
the comic book medium and come up with an appropriate atmosphere to match . 
the crow and batman comics call for a dark gothic atmosphere , which the director provided . 
the mask features a wacky superhero with off the wall antics , which the casting and cg effects reflect . 
superman 
is not over the top with colour and flash , and the film reflects this . 
blade uses common notions of vampires and incorporates them into the film , creating an appropriate atmosphere . 
this is in stark contrast to joel schumacher's contrived vision in batman and robin , reflecting the dated atmosphere in the 1960's television show . 
batman and robin proved that the director failed to realize one fundamental fact : comics have grown up , and so has the audience ( i'm working on a scathing review of batman and robin and will post it up when i'm ready ) . 
which brings me back to blade . 
although he may be a familiar character to some , due to his appearances in the spider-man animated show on fox , one will find no single trace of the warm-and-fuzzy vampire hunter as depicted in the cartoon . 
the film depicts a vicious vampire killer that 
uses every single means at his disposal to reach his ends . 
the end results are not pretty by any means . 
the story elements work very well -- for a comic book story . 
screenwriter david goyer ( who also wrote the crow ) incorporates interesting elements of vampire lore , using science to explain many of the ideas often dismissed in vampire films . 
this is presented through karen , a hematologist portrayed by n'bushe wright . 
this leads to inventive use of standard medical treatments to kill vampires . 
add this 
to the neat little gadgets that blade uses ( including a titanium sword complete with an " anti-theft device " ) , and one has an interesting premise . 
however , the film works best as an action film . 
actor wesley snipes has 
an extensive background in martial arts ( most of which comes from capoeira , a brazillian form incorporating flashy kicks ) , choreographing every single move . 
proving that quick , flash cutting edits are no substitute for choreographed fight sequences ( see batman and robin for a 
good example of that ) , wesley snipes dazzles the audience with some incredible fight scenes . 
regardless , this film is far from perfect . 
the film suffers from at least one major plot hole , regarding the summoning of the blood god . 
the ritual requires that a number of pure blood vampires are standing on 
marked squares , yet one of them is viciously murdered , allowing the ritual to pass ( and the murdered vampire is later shown standing on the square ) . 
obvious continuity errors also surface , especially during a scene where deacon frost takes a drag on his cigarette and is not exhaling it in the next frame ( there is no trace of smoke either ) . 
much of the special effects are not that spectacular either . 
while vampire disintegration scenes are intriguing to watch , other cgi ( computer generated imagery ) effects are almost slapped together , which is surprising when given the amount of time the film was given to be released ( the film's release date was pushed back multiple times ) . 
scenes with computer generated blood look extremely fake , knocking the believability factor down a few notches ( but then , i'm really hard to impress ) . 
the film's r rating comes from gory violence , but the lack of 
realism made me wonder why it got such a rating ( for realistic violence , 
watch " saving private ryan " ) . 
the overuse of cgi in films has made me yearn for the days of director george romero and makeup wizard rob bottin , both pioneers in the art of gore without extensive use of cgi . 
still , scenes involving non-cgi special effects do surface ( and look much more impressive ) , such as one particularly gruesome scene where a vampire tries to use blade's sword without deactivating the " anti-theft device " . 
wesley snipes is the saving grace behind what would have otherwise been a muddled mess . 
while not talking much , he is a grand physical presence , leaving other comic book superheroes in the dust . 
a decent ( by comic book film standards ) storyline also helps . 
quentin tarantino seems to have a knack for giving his stars big careers . 
after his pulp fiction , many actors began receiving many offers for jobs . 
john travolta made his come-back and is now one of today's most bankable stars . 
bruce willis proved his acting chops and is now considered an actual actor . 
jackie brown , on the other hand , boasts quite a well known cast , except for the main lead : pam grier . 
most likely you have heard of her and seen her in films , but she's never really had a breakthrough performance ( her first film was in the roger ebert-written beyond the valley of the dolls ) . 
that is , until now . 
jackie brown is a highly anticipated feature film from quentin tarantino , whose last film was the huge hit pulp fiction . 
after mediocre acting jobs , tarantino returns to what made his name a household one : directing and writing . 
jackie brown is the result , and it is fantastic entertainment . 
despite excellent direction from tarantino , the cast steals the film , giving one good performance after another . 
pam grier gives a stunning performance as jackie brown , and she is supported by an incredible mix of talent--samuel l . jackson , bridget fonda , michael keaton , robert de niro , and robert forster . 
more than likely , you will see a few of these names in the oscar pool come oscar nominations . 
describing a quentin tarantino film is very difficult , as you really can't say much or you spoil it for everyone else . 
i will tread lightly . 
jackie brown opens with an impressive shot of jackie brown ( grier ) in a blue outfit walking through the airport . 
the camera tracks along with her , and ends up revealing her occupation . 
we are also introduced to ordell robbie ( jackson ) , who sells illegal guns to interested buyers . . . 
for a hefty price . 
ms . brown carries the money from buyer to ordell in order to keep the cops away . 
however , an fbi agent ( keaton ) and a local l . a . cop ( michael bowen ) are out to find ordell and catch him while taking the money . 
they try to reach him through beaumont livingston ( chris tucker ) , one of ordell's buyers , but he mysteriously ends up dead . 
they try again through brown , but she is hesitant to admit to any wrong-doing . 
but after unknowingly carrying some drugs for one of ordell's friends ( fonda ) , she is caught and sent to jail . 
ordell pays her bail through a bail bond agent , max cherry ( forster ) , and then wants to find out what she told the cops . 
after she claims to have said nothing , she reveals the fact that she will tell them about ordell in order to stay out of prison . 
ordell doesn't like this , but they both come up with a scheme to throw the feds and cops off their track . 
this scheme seems to be going as planned , but unexpected occurances may or may not foul up their goal . 
revealing more would spoil the fun of jackie brown , and that's the biggest reason to go see a tarantino film . 
tarantino seems to have a fascination with hitmen and unusual predicaments ( and slang terms ) , but they are always done very well and believably . 
his hitmen are normally cruel , but pleasant , in that nasty sort of way . 
they talk like normal people , except for when doing business , and they are rude to their girlfriends . 
of course , this is a tarantino film , and you know you can expect some awkward situations to arise . 
and perhaps the biggest flaw with jackie brown is the slow middle section in which the pace begins to drop . 
of course , tarantino fixes this by moving onto the climax of the film , adding a lot of his reservoir dogs-style storytelling to it . 
things are told from one person's perspective , and then from another , and then from another , each time learning more and more . 
this all leads up to a very interesting conclusion , which decides who is on whose side . 
on the technical side of jackie brown , quentin tarantino directs it with the same style as he did with his 1994 film . 
however , this time around it isn't as nearly as impressive or original . 
the writing , on the other hand , is quite good , although i do find tarantino's use of slang terms offensive . 
the story jumps back and forth in time as in pulp fiction , but it's much more easy to understand . 
his previous film needed a second viewing in order to understand the time differentiation , but jackie brown is very simply to follow , especially considering that the time is given during the " leaps " in time . 
perhaps this is a result of the screenplay being written from the novel " rum punch " by elmore leonard . 
the dialogue is pretty much intelligent , and all the characters are fully realized . 
the cinematography is very well done by guillermo navarro ( who has worked with tarantino on previous films ) and the editing is very good . 
and as with pulp fiction , the music is a highlight , bringing back memorable songs from the 70s and 80s . 
the acting side of jackie brown is unforgettable . 
the performances are incredibly rich , with hidden meaning behind every characters' actions . 
nothing is quite as it seems , and you can't really tell which side one person is on . 
the real treat , of course , is pam grier who gives an astonishing performance as jackie brown . 
her poor living conditions are superceded by her superior wits , which play an important role in the film . 
watching grieg , i could tell what was going through her mind , even if i didn't know what she was thinking . 
her face portrays a lot of emotion that you can tell when she is sad , happy , or in deep thought . 
bridget fonda gives a very good performance as a druggie couch potato . 
i didn't even realize it was fonda until i saw her name in the final credits ( her performance actually reminded me of heather graham's in boogie nights ) . 
michael keaton comes across very well , as does michael bowen . 
chris tucker has a small , but effective performance . 
samuel l . jackson is very good , but it seems to me that he was replaying his jules winnfield character from pulp fiction ( although much less cynical ) . 
but no matter . . . 
jackson is very strong in his role . 
robert de niro is actually a little annoying at times , but overall he does a good job as one of ordell's perspective clients and friends . 
robert forster gives one of the best performances in the film , as he has one of the most developed characters . 
he is present throughout most of the film , and he holds his own against jackson and grier . 
jackie brown is rated r for language , sex , violence , drug use , and some offensive remarks . 
as a film by itself , jackie brown is a terrific piece of entertainment , with a complex plot to draw viewers in . 
however , one can not help but compare it to tarantino's pulp fiction , and expect great results . 
when compared , it comes up short , but not that short . 
it's a worthy effort , with terrific acting and some impressive writing from elmore leonard and tarantino . 
perhaps the best thing about jackie brown is the discovery of pam grier as a major hollywood actress . 
i can't remember seeing her in anything ( except for a small role in mars attacks ! ) , but hopefully she will get many more roles from this one . 
expect to see her name floating around the oscar nominations ( and hopefully she will even be able to nab one ) . 
the makers of jurassic park & the director of speed conjure up a storm ! 
 ( reviewed at eng wah's new jubilee cineplex at ang mo kio ) 
 " unlike earthquakes , their fury is precise . 
unlike hurricanes , their reach is unlimited . 
unlike fires , there is no way to combat them . 
unlike floods , their terror is sudden . " 
- excerpt from twister production notes 
i'm sure many of us living in this part of the world have never seen tornadoes ( or twisters ) before . 
i for one , have only seen the devastating effects and footage of tornadoes from news reports on tv and personally , i feel tornado-caused destruction comes no where near the destruction caused by hurricanes and earthquakes . . . . . . . . that is until i saw twister . 
the destruction caused by twisters may be precise ( not widespread but it moves very fast and its path of destruction is unpredictable . 
it will suck in cars , houses , livestock , etc . . . . . 
basically anything in its path that is not firmly rooted to the ground and in twister , you'll get to see all this - close up ! 
twister tells a tale about a group of storm chasers . 
these people are basically out-of-their-mind and for the sake of obtaining data on twister-occurrences , they risk their lives by literally chasing tornadoes , trying to get as close as they can . . . . . that 
is if the tornado does not suddenly decide to change its path towards them ! 
jo ( helen hunt ) is the leader of this pack of kamikazes . 
while they are gearing up for the mother-of-all-storms as predicted by satellite recon , bill ( bill paxton ) , a former co- leader of the team returns to settle some divorce papers with jo . 
apparently , bill has left his rogue-ish days for greener and more practical pastures - as a television weatherman . 
he catches up with his old-self and follows the pack like the good ole days , bringing his wife-to-be melissa ( jamie gertz ) along , a city-bred woman toting around with a handphone . 
jo has finally implemented bills initial idea of a device called dorothy which measurement's of a twister may lead to a better understanding on how tornadoes are formed so that a more reliable early-warning system can be implemented . 
the problem is , the device has to be placed very near the twister , and in its path ( which is practically unpredictable ) of destruction in order for it to function . 
to add to their current challenge , there is another group of storm chasers that is corporation-funded led by jonas ( cary elwes ) and they too have a similar device . 
thus begins the race ; jo's cheap government equipment with beaten-up vehicles against jonas's high-tech computers and satellite link-ups with their sleek , black all-terrain vans . 
plot wise , there are not really anything to shout about . 
twister is as predictable as any summer box-office hit can get . 
there is the danger of the twister , the competition with jonas^os more well-off team and of course , the settling of differences between jo and bill ( this part gives the film its human substance ) . 
helen hunt , bill paxton and the rest of the actors/actresses give only average performances and all of them take back seat to the main thespian in this movie - the twister itself ! 
thanks to the impressive digital effects by ilm ( lucasfilm's industrial light and magic ) , we get to see the terror and destruction caused by tornadoes up close ; from stripping barns and houses to lifting up livestock ! 
jan de bont once again proves his visual abiility ( thanks to his years of experience as a director of photography for action films ) for action sequences . 
like his previous film speed , the tornado sequences ( which are essentially the action sequences ) are well visualised and edited . 
audiences will be holding tight to their chairs everytime a tornado comes on screen ! 
the surround sound effects sure does help a lot in stressing the terror of a twister ! 
 ( the cinema must at the very least support digital sound to fully appreciate this ) twister is definitely an effect-dependent movie . 
now that id4 fever has begun to reside , and people are getting bored of watching will smith whoop et's ass for the umpteenth time . . . . . . twister is your sure bet of 7 bucks well spent ! 
watch it in a good theatre . . . please . 
the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice . 
there are times when the success of a particular film depends entirely on one actor's effort . 
often a single performance can turn what might have been a rather mediocre movie into something worthwhile . 
when one of these comes along , i usually try to think about how many other people put work into the movie , that there is no way one person could possible carry the entire project on his shoulders . 
but sometimes there is simply no other explanation , and such is the case with " the hurricane . " 
this biopic about falsely convicted boxer rubin " hurricane " carter would normally be called " norman jewison's 'the hurricane , ' " as per the tradition of referring to a film " belonging " to a director . 
but though he does decent work , jewison cannot claim ownership of " the hurricane , " because there is one reason this film works at all , and his name is denzel washington . 
washington plays carter , a boxer who in 1967 was convicted of a late-night shooting in a bar . 
jailed for 20 years , he maintained that he had never committed the crimes , but remained in jail after a second trial and countless appeals . 
the situation changed when a group of canadians moved to washington and worked on freeing carter . 
through the efforts of that group and carter's lawyers , he was eventually freed when their case was heard in federal court and the judge ruled that rubin carter had been unfairly convicted . 
the film details carter's childhood , which had him in and out of jail because of the efforts of a racist cop ( dan hedaya ) . 
when he finally got out of prison for good , carter became a rising star as a middleweight pro boxer , seemingly having his career on track , until the police framed him for multiple homicide . 
despite the efforts of political activists and celebrities , he remained imprisoned . 
flash forward to 1983 , when lesra ( vicellous reon shannon ) a young african-american boy , living with a group of canadian tutors , reads the book carter wrote while in prison . 
the book , entitled " the sixteenth round , " opens young lesra's eyes to the injustice that was carter's life , and he vows to help free the incarcerated boxer . 
lesra convinces his canadian friends ( deborah unger , liev schreiber , john hannah ) to work with him towards his goal . 
 " the hurricane " leans on denzel washington . 
he must carry virtually every scene by sheer force of will , and he does so brilliantly . 
it's probably accurate to say that washington does not embody rubin carter , because he plays a character far stronger and nobler than any real person could hope to be . 
it would perhaps be more accurate to say that washington embodies the character of rubin carter--a fictional personality invented solely for the film . 
the actor's work is masterful ; washington throws himself into every moment , refusing to keep the audience at arm's length . 
we feel everything he feels : the humiliation of having to return to prison after fighting so hard to make something of his life , the pain of having to order his wife to give up the fight , and the utter despair he feels when coming to the conclusion that all hope is lost . 
washington's is a performance of weight and emotional depth . 
he doesn't merely play angry , happy , or sad ; he feels it at the deepest level . 
his work is masterful , and for half of this film i realized that the scene i was watching would not have been nearly as affecting as it was if it had been in the hands of another actor . 
norman jewison directs the film , doing a reasonably good job of pacing and shot selection . 
 " the hurricane " moves quickly , with no scene drawn out much further than necessary and the narrative galloping along nicely . 
jewison handles his multiple flashbacks well ; the audience is always aware of just what the time and place of each scene is , and nothing is terribly confusing . 
his boxing scenes , constructed with clear inspiration from " raging bull , " get inside the action very well , and they are believable as real sports footage . 
jewison puts together a particularly nice scene by utilizing a pretty cool trick : carter is sent to solitary confinement for 90 days when he refuses to wear a prison uniform , and jewison , assisted by some wonderful acting from a game washington , shows how carter gradually starts to lose his mind during the constant solitude , and eventually we get three rubin carters arguing with each other in one cell . 
jewison's best achievement in " the hurricane " is succeeding at showing how carter becomes an embittered man during his hard-knock life , and how he is able to break out of that bitterness and learn to trust people again . 
sadly , though , the film's chief failures lie with the screenplay , as with most of the good-but-not-great efforts to round the pike this winter . 
there is much to interest a viewer in " the hurricane , " but it seems that every time the film gets a chance to take the most clich ? d route possible , it does . 
take a look at the supporting characters , for example , who are drawn up as either entirely good or entirely evil . 
carter and lesra ( played nicely by shannon , who deserves credit ) are the only real people here ; everyone else is a stereotype . 
the canadians are good . 
the cops are bad . 
the canadians spend most of their time dolefully grinning at each other in their lovey-dovey commune ( and it is a commune , despite the film's failure to make that clear ) , while every racist cop ( especially dan hedaya's ) melts in out of the shadows and glowers at every black person that enters the room . 
much of the dialogue comes off as rather hokey ( " hate put me in prison . 
love's gonna bust me out . " ) , and the big courtroom climax during which everyone gets to make an impassioned speech could have been lifted from a made-for-tv lifetime special . 
it's too bad . 
the cast is game , the director does his job , and the subject matter is interesting , but the script takes the safer , slightly more boring route far too often . 
i wanted a real reason for the cop to hold a grudge against carter other than " he's a racist pig . " 
i wanted more evidence that these canadians are real people with faults and virtues instead of a bunch of saintly crusaders looking for justice . 
in short , i wanted to see the film through a less distorted lens . 
criticism has been levied against the liberties " the hurricane " takes with the truth of what really happened to carter , and much of it is deserved . 
for example , the film gives us a boxing scene showing carter pummeling defending champ joey giardello , only to be screwed by the judges , who ruled giardello the winner . 
most accounts of the fight , however , have carter losing fairly . 
furthermore , much of carter's criminal past is conveniently left out of the film , and just why he was convicted again in his second trial is never really explained . 
of course , " the hurricane " works mainly as a fable , so digressions from the truth can be excused at least partially , but even dismissing such issues don't remove one fact : " the hurricane " is a highly flawed film . 
only one actor could have made a schmaltzy , predictable picture like this work as well as it does , and it's a good thing " the hurricane " has that actor . 
carter has been quoted as saying , " denzel washington is making me look good , " but he's not the only one . 
washington makes this film look good . 
denzel washington's " the hurricane . " 
sounds pretty good to me . 
contact is a nobly intentioned but ultimately unsatisfying adaptation of carl sagan's only novel . 
it details the circumstances surrounding the first clear sign of intelligent life in outer space and their effects on the life of a young and idealistic radio astronomer named ellie arroway ( jodie foster ) . 
we first meet ellie at a giant radio telescope in puerto rico , where she is part of the seti ( search for extraterrestrial intelligence ) project . 
her research is quickly killed , however , by her highly political david drumlin ( tom skerrit ) , who disdains " pure research " in favor of science with " commercial applications . 
she goes in search of private funding and is turned down at every step until she pitches her project to a corporation run by the mysterious s . r . 
hadden ( john hurt ) . 
then , with that money just about to finally dry up , ellie is sitting out in the desert near the very large array in new mexico when she hears over her headphones a very powerful pulsing radio signal . 
in the movie's most exciting and believable sequence , ellie and her coworkers determine that the signal has to be coming from the star vega . 
at first the signal appears to be just sequences of prime numbers , then it turns out to be a tv signal of the berlin olympics bounced back to earth from 50 years before . 
further decoding , with hadden's help , reveals another layer to message , containing detailed plans for a massive and complex machine . 
it appears that the machine is a transport that will allow one person to travel to the aliens' home world . 
of course , the big question becomes " who gets to ride it ? " 
 ( right after " who's gonna pay for this thing ? " ) . 
to boil it down , ellie gets denied the seat in the machine because she bluntly acknowledges her atheism , while drumlin gets to go because he rather insincerely professes his deep religious faith . 
drumlin is killed and the machine destroyed when religious fanatics bomb the launch platform ( apparently to keep " godless science " from talking to god , or something like that ) . 
then hadden reappears with startling news . 
he has secretly constructed a second machine off the coast of japan and has reserved the ride for ellie , in whom he has taken a rather paternal interest . 
ellie boards the machine and is transported through some kind of wormhole to a dream-like place that looks a lot like waikiki beach before they built the hotels , where she meets the aliens who take the form of her late father ( david morse ) . 
when she returns home , no one believes her . 
she was not even gone for one second , they say , even though she remembers being gone for 18 hours . 
her story is officially discredited , although believed by a large segment of the public ( who don't even have to know that her computer records of the trip contain nothing but static . 
 . 
 . 
eighteen hours worth of static ) . 
there is a lot to like about contact so i will highlight those points first . 
ellie arroway is a well-rounded character portrayed by one of the best actresses currently working . 
neither the character nor the performance has the same depth as clarice starling in silence of the lambs , but that's a tough standard to meet . 
ellie is interesting in that she is woman defined by a strange array of father figures . 
her real father is an idealized movie dad who does nothing in the film but love his daughter unconditionally . 
drumlin comes across as a distant stepfather to whom ellie is like an irritating teenager who wants to use his toys to get into trouble . 
hadden obviously has affection for ellie , but in the end he seems to see her as his creation , nothing more than his favorite piece on the chess board . 
even palmer joss ( matthew mcconaughey ) , ellie's love interest , takes a paternalistic interest in ellie , seeing her as a misguided person who needs protection from her own impulses . 
the film is technically impressive , especially in the scenes where the message is first received and during the destruction of the first machine . 
the part of the film dealing with the message has the best presentation of real science in a film since the andromeda strain . 
the film falls apart when dealing with its central theme , the dichotomy between science and religion . 
this is a very real debate but contact boils it down to a simplistic level that never really touches on the actual issues involved . 
the film presents science pretty well ( until the end ) so the real problem stems from it presentation of religious faith . 
religious people are presented as shallow caricatures . 
rob lowe plays a ralph reed clone named richard rank ( very subtle , guys ) , the voice of the religious right . 
another religious figure is the fanatic who blows up the first machine ( jake busey ) . 
the only really fleshed-out religious person , palmer joss , is supposed to be a minister of some sort , but his actual faith is left pretty vague . 
i can't even say for certain that he was supposed to be a christian . 
all we know is that he dropped out of the seminary and obviously has no qualms about pre-marital sex . 
the film drops the science ball at the very end , when ellie appears to assert that there are some things even scientists must take on faith . 
in a day and age when the theory of evolution is denounced by the religion right as an atheist " religious " doctrine , this is exactly the wrong message to send . 
in a movie dealing with issues of science and faith , the last thing you want your scientist character to do is abandon the principle of scientific skepticism . 
what ellie should have said was , " you shouldn't believe me . 
not without evidence , and i don't have the evidence . 
i know what happened but you shouldn't take my word alone . " 
that is the voice of science speaking . 
the character of david drumlin is another problem with this film . 
his attitudes toward pure research project seem out of place for a person in his position . 
also , his profession of " faith " before the selection committee is so nakedly and transparently insincere that only a pack of idiots should have fallen for it . 
the last big problem is with the use of real personalities in various roles . 
the media figures , such as bernard shaw and jay leno aren't so bad , in as much as their participation was voluntary . 
the use of bill clinton , however , should give anyone pause . 
first of all , lifting the image of a sitting head of state and inserting him into a fictional story line , thus using his words outside of the context in which they were spoken , is just plain creepy . 
also , using the real president places this film between 1993 and 2001 , forever dating it . 
people watching this film in the future will say , " hey , this never took place during clinton's term . " 
this bit of unreality will jar people out of their suspension of disbelief . 
also , the level of technology portrayed in the film is too advanced to take place before the first decade of the next century . 
better to have had a fictitious president played by an actor or no president at all . 
the film does raise an interesting question , although it never develops it in a satisfying way . 
if we were picking an emissary to send to an alien culture , would an atheist be automatically disqualified just because ninety percent of the population of the world professes a belief in god , or at least some form of supernatural creator ? 
personally , i would hope not , since religion is basically an opinion , a form of ideology . 
i would not want any form of ideological test for such an import task . 
david cronenberg presents us with another strange tale crawling out of his impressively twisted head . 
it is one of many science fiction films , released during the last year of this millenium , that tackles issues that will play an important role in our future . 
the story unfolds in a near future , where the line between reality and virtual reality blurs . 
the world of the future is an unfriendly place , where the scared inhabitants are " hiding " in virtual reality fantasy games to escape the uncertainty of the real world . 
allegra geller ( jennifer jason leigh ) , the leading game designer in the world , is testing her new virtual reality game , existenz with a focus group . 
as they begin , she is attacked by a fanatic assassin employing a bizarre organic gun . 
she flees with a young marketing trainee , ted pikul ( jude law ) , who is suddenly assigned as her bodyguard . 
unfortunately , her pod , an organic gaming device that contains the only copy of the existenz game program , is damaged . 
to inspect it , she talks ted into accepting a gameport in his own body so he can play the game with her . 
the events leading up to this , and the resulting game lead the pair on a strange adventure in a world where individuality doesn't exist , as the " players " are forced to perform as characters in an unknown plot . 
here the reality and their actions are impossible to determine from either their own or the game's perspective . 
i don't intend to reveal more of the film's premise , which is structured as a computer game , with " tasks " that the characters must complete to win the game . 
released after " the matrix " and " dark city " , " existenz " has some similarities and parallels that connect it to these films . 
however , " existenz " is moving in a different direction , with a premise of its own . 
a combination of dazzling special effects , brilliantly coordinated action sequences and an intelligent and sophisticated plot , made " the matrix " a rare and entertaining science fiction experience , with some dark and frightening ideas hidden under its sparkling facade . 
 " existenz " has a completely different atmosphere , resembling " dark city " , which is darker , more serious and less entertaining . 
 " existenz " has the opportunities and potential , but the enormous possibilities are never quite explored . 
after the engaging beginning , it starts to falter . 
while i was watching the film , many left the theatre during the first hour . 
and indeed , " existenz " seemed as a complete failure : the actors seemed unreal , the plot and dialogue silly , unfinished relationships and unexplained events followed one after another . 
but the last fifteen minutes lifted the film on a complete different level , explaining all past events , the silly dialogue and the unreal performances within a few scenes . 
and jet the film fails on several issues . 
probably the best written character in the story is a game designer , who would rather spend the rest of her life in a virtual world , than face real life . 
this is a great possibility to create a magnificent character , and jennifer jason leigh stretches cronenberg's script to the limits , but fails because the advantages of virtual reality in comparison to the real world are never shown . 
existenz is not a world of which you might dream about in your fantasies . 
it is not a world worth sacrificing your life for . 
it's a cold , dark place where the " players " are forced to interrelate with unreal characters , eat mutated creatures and even murder against their own will . 
it doesn't look like a place worth even thinking about . 
david cronenberg has been the creator of " the fly " , " videodrome " and " the dead zone " , so it's not so hard to guess that " existenz " is a violent and gory film . 
besides the regular murders of innocent people , the audiences can enjoy an autopsy of a two-headed mutated amfibium . 
scenes like that have become a trademark for cronenberg and it seems that he can't make a film without flowing blood and foul creatures . 
the way i see it , this is the film's crucial failure . 
it is impossible for cronenbergto create a beautiful world where time , space and problems of our everyday life do not exist ; a place of blooming blossoms , green forests and clear waters ; a place really worth sacrificing your life for . 
because of its lack of three dimensionality , the film looses most of its possibilities , but stays afloat because of some interesting scenes , amusing performances ( especially by willem dafoe ) and one interesting and important thought , depicted in many different ways throughout the movie . 
during the film , the audience is as confused as the characters : detached from their everyday existence and no longer able to see the difference between the real world and the alternative reality that they have created . 
 " the matrix " , despite of its many dark and disturbing thoughts , ends with a light at the end of the tunnel . 
 " existenz " does not . 
it is a one time experience , ending in blood , gore and madness - a rather frightening forecast for tomorrow . 
 " seven " is one of the best mystery movies i've ever seen . 
it's extremely intriguing and suspenseful , but it's also quite fun . 
it's a serial killer mystery , but you don't care so much about making the killer pay as much as hope they just catch the killer . 
the story is a cops-on-the-trail-of-serial-killer mystery . 
someone is murdering people who are offenders of " the seven deadly sins . " 
a fat man ( gluttony ) was forced to eat himself to death , a lawyer ( greed ) is slaughtered by his own rich possessions . . . 
i could go on but revealing any more would give away entirely too much . 
what makes this film so unique is the characterization of the " good guys " which makes the unseen villain seem so vile . 
brad pitt stars is quite excellent as detective david mills , the cocky rookie . 
however , morgan freeman is even better as detective william sommerset , the wise veteran on the verge of retirement ( and he doesn't get killed by the end ) . 
there is a great sense of camaraderie here which often provides for a breath of comic relief . 
this is impressive because the mood is so tense , and the fact that it can be down-played as well as it is here ( let alone at all ) is quite an accomplishment . 
the setting takes place in present day new york city but the art direction is able to give the city a feeling of the evil , scary place many believe it to be . 
the production design is superb , in the spirit of " batman " and " the crow , " this film embodies the gothic mood . 
the way the words fade in and out , along with the freaky nine inch nails music really add a lot to the story on a subconscious level - even the credits are scary ! 
the killer's victims have no connections at all , and thus mills and sommerset don't have much to go on to solve the case . 
they can only wait for the next murder to occur which makes for tremendous suspense . 
we become just as tense and worried as the detectives because of this thick atmosphere of the unknown . 
not that many films have such an interesting and intriguing screenplay as this . 
the only problem i had with the film is the way in which mills and sommerset are lead to a suspect . 
let's just say it seems a little too " mystery movie , " or too convenient in other words . 
when they are led to a suspect by the name of john doe , a terrific chase scene ensues . 
this is a typical thrilling element , but it works perfectly here because of the process of the story . 
if anything , this film is the epitome of twist endings . 
i don't have to tell you mills and sommerset finally catch the criminal , but the way in which this happens is surprising . 
there is a scene of intriguing philosophy between the killer and the detectives , and even though he's obviously insane , his charisma makes for some good points . 
what's even more surprising is the last few scenes themselves as the suspense comes to a terrific climax as the film's resolution comes down to a question of what justice really is . 
 " seven " is not just a film about crime , but about the evil within man . 
john doe felt he was doing society a favor by ridding it of " scum . " 
but as justified as he makes himself seem , we must never be tempted by such twisted ideals of justice . 
after hearing reviews for woody allen's upteenth movie in history , " celebrity , " range from terribly boring to just so-so , my heart lept when the opening images of the film closely resembled that of " manhattan , " my personal favorite from my personal favorite director of all time . 
woody allen's films almost never rely on visual flair over textual flair , so when one of his films closely resembles the one time that these two entities fit hand-in-hand ( " manhattan " really is one of the best-looking films i've ever seen , beautiful black and white photography of the city's best areas , etc . ) , a fan can't help but feel visibly moved . 
the film opens up , with the usual credits with plain white font over black backgrounds , and an old ironic standard playing on the soundtrack , but then the screen fills with a gorgeous dull gray sky , with the word " help " being spelled with an airplane . 
beethoven's 5th blasts on the soundtrack . 
the city seems to stop to take notice of this moment , and it's all rather lovely to look at . 
and then we cut to a film crew , shooting this as the film's hilariously banal key moment in the film , where the lead actress in the film ( melanie griffith , looking as buxom and beautiful as ever ) has to realize something's wrong with her life or whatever . 
it's a terribly stale scene for a woody allen film , with the great opening shots or without , and my heart sank and i soon got used to the fact that once again , a new film of his was not going to be as great as his past works ( though , for the record , last year's " deconstructing harry " came awfully close ) . 
what the hell has happened to him ? 
the man who once could be relied on for neurotic freshness in cinema has not become less funny , but his films have become less insightful and more like he tossed them together out of unfinished ideas . 
 " bullets over broadway , " though wonderful , relies on irony to pull a farce that just never totally takes off . 
 " mighty aphrodite " is more full of great moments and lines than a really great story . 
 " everyone says i love you " was more of a great idea than a great film . 
even " deconstructing harry " is admittingly cheap in a way , even if it does top as one of his most truly hilarious films . 
if anything , the reception of " celebrity " by everyone should tip allen off to the fact that this time , it's not the audience and critics who are wrong about how wonderful his film is : it's him . 
 " celebrity " is , yes , a good film , but it's only marginally satisfying as a woody allen film . 
instead of creating the great woody allen world , he's created a world out of a subject he knows only a bit about . 
and he's fashioned a film that is based almost entirely on his uninformed philosophy of celebrities , so that it plays like a series of skits with minor connections . 
it's like " la dolce vita " without the accuracy , the right amount of wit , and the correct personal crisis . 
woody , becoming more insecure in his old age , choses to drop the woody allen character in on the world of celebrities , and then hang him and all his flaws up for scrutiny , and does this by casting not himself but brit actor kenneth branagh in the lead . 
much has been said about his performance - dead on but irritating , makes one yearn for the real thing , blah blah blah - but to anyone who actually knows the woody allen character knows that branagh's performance , though featuring some of the same mannerisms ( stuttering , whining , lots o' hand gestures ) , is hardly a warts-and-all impersonation . 
branagh brings along with him little of the woody allen charm , which actually allows for his character's flaws to be more apparent . 
woody's a flawed guy , and we know it , but we love him anyway , because he's really funny and really witty and really intelligent . 
branagh's allen is a bit more flat-out bad , but with the same charm so that , yes , we like him , but we're still not sure if he's really a good person or not . 
his character , lee simon , is first seen on the set of the aforementioned movie , hits on extra actress winona ryder , then goes off to interview griffith , who takes him to her childhood home where he makes a pass at her , and she denies him . . . sorta . 
we then learn , through flashbacks , that lee has been sucked into trying to be a celebrity thanks to a mid-life crisis and an appearance at his high school reunion . 
he has since quit his job as a travel journalist and become a gossip journalist of sorts , covering movie sets and places where celebrities congregate , so that he can meet them , and maybe sell his script ( a bank robbery movie " but with a deep personal crisis " ) . 
as such , he has divorced his wife of several years ( allen regular judy davis ) , and continues on a quest for sexual happiness , boucing from girlfriend to girlfriend and fling to fling over the course of the film . 
after griffith comes his escapades with a model ( charlize theron ) who is " polymorphously perverse " ( glad to see allen is using new jokes , ha ha ) , who takes him for a wild ride not different from that of the anita ekberg segment of " la dolce vita . " 
following are his safe relationship with smart working woman famke janssen , a relationship that almost assures him success , and his continued escapades with ryder , whom he fancies most of all . 
his story is juxtaposed with that of davis , who flips out , but stumbles onto happiness when she runs into a handsome , friendly tv exec ( joe mantegna ) who lands her a job that furthers her career to national status . 
while lee is fumbling about , selfishly trying to ensure his own happiness , davis becomes happy ( " i've become the kind of woman i've always hated . . . and 
i'm loving it . " ) 
without doing a thing . 
the result is a film of highs and mediums . 
the mediums are what take up most of the film , with sitations and scenes which don't exactly work but you can't help but pat allen on the back for trying . 
but other places are really great scenes . 
the opening . 
the sequence with theron , which is so good that i wished it hadn't ended . 
a banana scene with bebe neuwirth ( droll as ever ) . 
and , perhaps the best sequence : a romp with hot-as-hell teen idol , brandon darrow , played by none other than leo dicaprio , who is so un-dicaprio-esque that if any of this fans could sit through this film , they'd never look at him the same way . 
he ignites the screen with intensity , and spares nothing in showing his character as narcissistically tyrannical , and totally heartbreaking for lee , who comes to him to talk about his script that he has read , and finds himself on a wild all-day ride with him . 
they go to atlantic city to watch a fight , they gamble , and they wind up in his hotel room , where darrow gets it on with his flame ( gretchen mol ) and he lends him one of the leftover groupies . 
allen's writing in these scenes are so good that just for them , i'd almost recommend the film . 
almost . 
but what i really liked about this film is despite the fact that it's a mess , despite the fact that what this film really needs is a good old fashioned rewrite by allen himself , it's still a smart and insightful film . 
though some of the jokes are either stale or misplaced ( some seem too cartoonish , even for this environment ) , allen still manages to get across that this film is not exactly about celebrities , as it may seem to be ( if it were , it'd be extremely out-of-touch ) , but about those who want to be celebrities , and how they equate celebrity-hood with happiness . 
we never get close enough to the actual celebrities to see if they're really happy ( they may appear to be on the surface . . . ) , but we do get close enough to lee and davis' character . 
lee is obsessed with the phenomenon , while davis takes is at arm's length , and never gets too involved in what it is , and soon becomes one herself . 
besides , it's witty , and it does have the one thing that no other film has but allen's : that great woody allen feel . 
it may be not exactly fresh and lively or totally brilliant in its depiction of its subject , and yes , as a part of woody allen's oeuvre , it's merely a blip ( no " annie hall " but it's no " shadows and fog " either ) , but it goes to prove that no one can make a film like him , and only he and maybe godard could possibly take a totally horrible metaphor , like the one in the beginning , and make it work not once but twice . 
an astonishingly difficult movie to watch , the last temptation of = christ may be scorsese's most important film , and yet his most = impossibly abstract as well . 
scorsese presents the life of jesus = christ , through nikos kazantzakis' novel , which details the life of = christ from approximately 20 until the day of crucifixtion . 
jesus of = nazareth ( dafoe ) is a carpenter , who opens the film making crosses , so = that he can escape the fate he is subjected to , his destiny on earth . 
= yet , he soon learns his evil ways for aiding in the deaths of others , = and subjects himself to a desert in exile , in hopes that he can reach = god . 
before leaving , he asks for forgiveness from mary magdelene = ( barbara hershey ) , a prostitute who is also a childhood friend of jesus . 
= =20 
after going to the desert , christ learns his true purpose in life , = and what he must do . 
aided by judas ( keitel ) , he sets off on teaching = the world his message . 
along the way , he meets john the baptist , the = rest of the prophets , and tries to teach the world his message . 
christ = is also confronted by internal demons and self-doubt , as he tries to = find his true purpose throughout the entire film . 
during the story , = judas is the closese ally of jesus : his betrayal , argues the film , was = not out of hate , but out of love , in order to allow christ to die . 
=20 
he is eventually captured , and crucified as per the bibile . 
= however , as he is about to die on the cross , he is saved by a girl , who = brings him to his marriage with mary magdelene . 
the girl is a guardian = angel who is from god , and who has saved him from his death . 
jesus goes = on to live a life as a man , as a carpenter , and does not die on the = cross . 
on his deathbed , in the final moments of his life , he is visited = by the prophets , and by judas , who denounces his master for " not keeping = his end of the bargain . " 
judas reveals the angel to truly be the devil , = and the life jesus had lived to be the ultimate selfish act . 
jesus = escapes from his deathbed , and asks his father for forgiveness , for = succumbing to his last temptation . 
visually and aurally , the film is absolutely breathtaking . 
no other = director has even come close to realizing jerusalem during the time of = christ's life to the screen . 
peter gabriel contributes a score than is = simply astonishing , with pulsing rhythms that capture the viewer . 
the = performances are simply exquisite , with dafoe leading the way with a = mesmerizing turn as jesus . 
keitel , although his accent is a problem , is = passionately brilliant , fighting through language to bring the character = to life . 
the visuals are also amazing . 
scorsese frames his movie in a = harsh tone , leaving the impression that jesus truly is a man who is = having human frailties . 
the film , though , has many trouble spots . 
paul schrader's script is = one . 
schrader uses modern-day new york english to tell the story , along = with new york words , new york mannerisms , and new york slang speech . 
= the film also does not focus on the godly aspects of christ . 
there is = no underlying message behind the man's words . 
the film fails to capture = the glory and splendor of christ . 
had it faithfully explored that = aspect , than the dichotomy of jesus' soul , his frailties and doubt mixed = with his unmistakable glory , would have been simply spectacular . 
the = message of christ is confused between love and violence , and the film = merely tells us jesus is great , instead of showing us his greatness . 
the film is also overlong . 
it just drags in the middle , with = nothing truly happening . 
christ is a confused figure , in the sense that = the audience doesn't know who he really is . 
schrader forgets to give = jesus a message , to show that he truly is the messiah , to give him the = divinity . 
without that , he is a rambling prophet , who the audience = themselves do not believe . 
there are several moments of accidental = hilarity , and most of them occur when jesus is attempting to preach . 
= there are moments of brief awe and power , followed by moments of = confused hilarity . 
that said , the controversial temptation sequence is something to = behold . 
it is a step in an unexpected direction , one that leaves the = audience puzzled , until the arrival of the disciples . 
it is a simply = breathtaking scene , with jesus about to die as a mortal . 
it is truly = one of scorsese's finest moments . 
it is unfortunate that scorsese = couldn't make a film about christ as powerful as that one scene . 
=20 
call me crazy , but i don't see saving private ryan as the film of the summer . 
a good movie , yes , with chillingly realistic battle scenes and emotion to spare . 
an utterly riviting movie on par with steven spielberg's best work , no . 
personally , if i was spielberg , i wouldn't go back to the world war ii era one more time after schindler's list and the indiana jones movies . 
i'm guessing steve has a thing for nazis ; i really wouldn't be surprised if a velociraptor ate one of the swastika-wearing dudes in the next jurassic park movie . 
all lofty pretenses aside , saving private ryan is the goriest movie this side of a 1980s slasher flick . 
the difference is , it's easy during friday the 13th to laugh off a spear sticking out of kevin bacon's chest while blood spurts like crazy , but it's damn hard to sit and eat reese's pieces while soldiers suffer machine gun bullets to the head and have their intestines spilled out onto the battlefield . 
and believe me , there's plenty of it . 
a 30-minute sequence at the beginning of the movie has an army captain ( tom hanks ) and his soldiers landing at omaha beach to join countless other americans who are already under fire . 
lives are lost in seconds as the purposefully confusing and jarring scene goes on and on , and all the young men in the audience find themselves never , ever wanting to be drafted . 
cut to some bureaucratic defense office , where a hundred women pound out sympathy form letters to the families of the casualties . 
one woman happens upon an interesting detail -- three brothers in different platoons were killed in combat , and their mother is getting the telegram today . 
i guess it's an interesting conversation piece to everyone but the mother , so the army chief ( harve presnell ) sends hanks on what is essentially a public relations mission , to find the fourth ryan brother and send him home . 
that way , the army saves the postage on yet another telegram to mrs . ryan . 
one good thing about saving private ryan is that the soldiers who are headed to rescue ryan know it's a mission designed to make the army look good . 
they question the worth of risking eight soldiers' lives to save one , and hanks' character admits he doesn't give a damn about ryan ; he's just following orders . 
if this was a john wayne movie , things would be different . 
there'd be a phony , " let's go get that boy , gosh darn it ! " 
attitude that would sugarcoat the reality of war . 
by doing things this way , spielberg admits the instincts of self- preservation and complacency that every normal person has . 
it makes saving private ryan a lot more powerful than an testosterone-driven stallone movie mission . 
the movie's pattern is to have long battle scenes followed by quiet scenes of semi-introspective conversation among the soldiers . 
hanks is painted first as a nails-tough army man careful to hide his true self from the other men . 
it's not that way for long . 
edward burns , the guy you get for your movie when ben affleck isn't available , is the impulsive one . 
jeremy davies plays the translator who is seeing combat for the first time , and so on . 
none of the characters are fascinating or natural born heroes , but was spielberg's obvious intention . 
i wondered when i heard saving private ryan was three hours long , how were they going to fill three hours' time searching for one person and still make it interesting ? 
there are a few false starts ; hanks finds one private ryan in ted danson's company ( apparently , danson joined the army after " ink " was canceled . ) and breaks the bad news before learning it's the wrong ryan . 
and of course the movie's far from over when hanks does locate ryan ( matt damon , the other guy you get when affleck isn't available ) . 
that's when the movie turns into more of a conventional war flick , although body parts and limbs still fly like never before . 
saving private ryan is worth your time , but it's definitely no schindler's list . 
the battle scenes are intense and realistic , but some of the attempts at sincere emotion aren't . 
the movie's bookends are particularly cheesy and out of place , when an old private ryan goes to the cemetary with his family and bawls his eyes out , whining , " tell me i've led a good life . 
tell me i'm a good man . " 
spielberg was apparently following the james cameron line of thought that any three-hour movie about the past should be framed by a self-contained prologue and epilogue that takes place in the present . 
much more effective are subtler scenes , like the one where several of hanks' men are rifling thrugh a bag of dogtags from dead soldiers , and they make light of what they're doing by pretending they're playing poker . 
this while an airborne division marches by , their eyes full of that mound of dogtags . 
by not explicitly pointing out that it symbolizes the random poker game that life and death can be in war , the audience gets the message . 
and even if it's not a classic , saving private ryan is definitely one of the better war movies out there . 
seen august 8 , 1998 at 6 p . m . at rotterdam square cinemas ( rotterdam , ny ) , theater #6 , by myself for free using my sony/loews critic's pass . 
[theater rating : * * * : good seats , sound , and picture] 
war is a topic that can't help but be glorified any way it is portrayed by the media . 
movies , documentaries , and even history books have a way of making the darker side of humanity exciting since the most general aspects are focused on , such as strategy , politics , and victory . 
it's easy to forget war , in its most basic form , is a battle of armies out to slaughter each other . 
forgotten more easily is the fact that each soldier , no matter what his rank or importance , is a real flesh-and-blood person and not just a number . 
 " saving private ryan " is one of the few films that dares play up this aspect , especially in its unapologetic , realistic delivery . 
it proves there's a huge difference between battling and killing . 
the film opens with one of the most graphic , disturbing scenes in recent memory . 
it's world war ii , d-day to be exact , and the u . s . military is invading omaha beach where the nazis are more than ready for them . 
spielberg uses many techniques to create for a total sense of reality . 
instead of positioned cameras , the footage here seems to have been shot by camera operators running alongside soldiers as if they were just as scared . 
there is no sense of stability , but of constant , anxious , and confusing motion , giving us the feeling of being in the middle of the battle , and just a vulnerable as the poor troops . 
 " poor " is a proper word to describe how pathetic and yet innocent the men fighting are . 
there is little to no dialogue throughout the loud battle and no prologue to define any characters . 
we don't get the feeling these are handsome actors playing heroic roles , but that these are men about to kill and be killed for reasons beyond their understanding . 
the nazis are not portrayed as enemies to be hated , but as people that must be destroyed because they're there . 
in the movies , the good guys can run through a firestorm of bullets and bombs and not get a scratch , but in reality that wouldn't happen . 
the men have nothing to shield or protect them besides some metal flanks and dead bodies . 
they are sitting ducks and we realize this through the perspective of the well-secured germans who can actually see who , what , and where they're shooting , unlike the americans who must fire in a general direction to avoid getting their heads blown off . 
perhaps the film is flawed by not providing any backstory on the war itself and who the men really are , but that seems to be part of the theme . 
the film seems to rely on the audience's sense of patriotism , that the american military is " right " and good and that the nazis are " inherently evil . " 
the battle scene eventually focuses on a group of men who have miraculously survived and made their way close to the enemy stronghold ( a whole 50-foot progression ) , and begin to inflict some damage . 
i have to admit that once the first glimpse of victory over the nazis sprang up , i couldn't help but feel some sense of joy and relief . 
to triumph against all odds is a cliche to be sure , but there's nothing cliche about the graphic , detailed , atmosphere here because it really happened . 
one of the most surprising aspects of the film is how little story construction there is , and yet the events that take place make sense and are interesting . 
the plot is practically irrelevant since the film is more concerned with the reality of the war and the soldiers we meet . 
tom hanks stars as captain miller , a relatively average man who happens to be the leader of a platoon . 
he's never obsessive or any such generic , cartoonish characteristic that might dominate a character like this . 
he doesn't want to be there any more than his men , but when he is given a mission he intends to carry it out . 
the mission the film is concerned with is , as the title states , saving private ryan . 
through a series of command started by an ordinary clerical worker , it is brought to a general's attention that three brothers from iowa have been killed in action and their mother will receive notices of each's death simultaneously . 
when they learn a fourth brother is stationed somewhere in europe , they make it a top priority to have him returned safely to his mother . 
it's easy to sympathize with this situation , after all , no one should have to lose all their children at once . 
but finding one man in this war is , as miller puts it , " like trying to find a needle in a stack of needles . " 
the saving of private ryan isn't just a dramatic device , but a thematic one . 
his salvation represents the sense of innocence the country , the world even , was trying to convince itself it still had . 
when miller's company hears of the mission , they scoff at the idea assuming he is dead , but miller isn't so quick to shrug it off . 
he knows the only thing that can really save soldiers from death is hope , and now he has the opportunity to make someone's sense of hope a reality . 
the mission to find ryan gives miller's group a destination , but not direction . 
along the way many things happen to them , both good and bad . 
a few battles are fought , not to be major accomplishments for the war , but because they encounter german soldiers and have no other choice . 
the act of killing itself becomes one of the film's major philosophical metaphors . 
the soldiers don't mind killing other soldiers in blind battle , but when they come across a lone survivor who begs them to let him go , they can barely stop themselves from killing him in cold blood as some kind of vengeance for their losses . 
unfortunately , death is a fact of war , and most films try to avoid it when it comes to the main characters , but here spielberg doesn't want us to think these men are invincible . 
in fact , only a small amount of color and personality is sketched into each man , and the performances are good enough to make this method work . 
although the characters are somewhat typical , the actors maintain control over the material at all time . 
whether they're arguing with each other , telling stories of back home , or fighting the germans , they never go overboard and always seem believable . 
sure , there's a zinger here and there , but war doesn't change the fact boys will be boys . 
if and when one dies we too can feel the loss , even though we hardly knew them . 
the final act brings the story full circle with another tremendous , violent battle sequence . 
private ryan has been found , but facing four to one odds , can the americans defeat the germans and keep ryan alive ? 
that's not a premise for thrills , it's symbolic of everything the film has worked for . 
it would be wrong to say the film has either a happy or sad ending , it ends the way it must end . 
i remember reading a " calvin & hobbes " comic strip where calvin asked his dad something like , " dad , how do armies of men killing each other solve problems ? " 
 " saving private ryan " is the adult version of that question . 
'lake placid' is definately not your typical creature attacking people movie , ok so maybe it is , but this one is enjoyable , and clever . 
actually it comes off more of a comedy than a horror film . 
well the ending is kinda scary , but in most horror/comedies they are . 
i will admit that 'lake placid' isn't an oscar worthy film , but it does come off as an inventive movie that is original and funny . 
bridget fonda plays a palentologist who after finding out her boyfriend is cheating , is forced to go to lake placid and investigate a tooth , after a man is bit in half . 
she gets there but really doesn't understand why she is there . 
bill pullman plays a man also investigating what happened , along with the sherriff and a rich croc obsessed man , they go out and find what is going on . 
what they find though isn't great . 
a huge and i mean huge crocodile is living in lake placid , over 150 years old , he has migrated here for who knows why . 
they have to fight against the croc and try to trap him so they can study him and see where he came from . 
betty white plays a woman who lives on the shores of lake placid , and well you'll have to see the movie to find out . 
her character is very funny and foul-mouthed , which is surprising to hear betty spew words and phrases that are pretty bad , but funny . 
to me the movie came off as a spoof of jaws . 
with the opening sequence , and some others , it is not original and is . 
when you watch this movie , you definately notice the smartness and cleverness of it . 
david e . kelly who is the mastermind of the practice and ally mcbeal , writes this movie with ease and surprisingly does a great job . 
the characters have smartmouths , two foul , and some great one-liners . 
but believe me , don't take 'lake placid' too seriously or you won't like it . 
but it is a movie that can be enjoyed as a fun 'popcorn' type movie . 
but i guess it rates above the 'popcorn' rating . 
sit back , watch the movie , laugh , scream , and whatever you want . 
even though the movie is r , and i put violence and gore . 
there's really not that much gore , but what there is might seem kinda gross to some . 
'lake placid' is a smart , clever , funny , and scary movie that i enjoyed and i think you will too . 
a lot of times a three-star film will be my favorite . 
they're usually the kind of movie i can watch most often too . 
they're usually not too deep , allowing for semi-brainless relaxation , and at the same time , not too dumb . 
men in black is a four-star three-star film . 
 ( hope you could follow that one ) 
men in black doesn't wait to get to the fun . 
just minutes into the film we are introduced to agent kay ( tommy lee jones ) , introduced to an alien , and introduced to the the awesome memory-diminishing tool that all mib agents use . 
after all , you can't have alien witnesses running around with that kind of knowledge can you ? 
men in black is , of course , the organization which " moniters all extra-terrestrial activity on earth " . 
nypd officer james edwards ( will smith ) , is on a routine foot chase when suddenly the no-good punk he's chasing starts leaping up buildings and blinking more than one pair of eyes . 
the alien delivers the simple message that the world is going to end , and with that , dives off of a roof . 
naturally nobody believes his story . 
 . 
 . 
nobody that is , except for the top secret organization that not even the government is aware of . 
edwards then meets agent kay , the man who never seems to crack a smile , and is introduced to the mib . 
edwards winds up joining the team and is stripped of anything that can point back to him ( birth certificate , drivers license , and even the literal removal of his fingerprints ) . 
james edwards no longer exists . 
meet agent jay . 
agent kay takes the rookie jay under his wing as they go about " regular " duties . 
eventually a far more treacherous event comes into play . 
a " bug " has landed on earth and is going to wipe out mankind if these two don't ( or can't ) stop it . 
the plot isn't exactly clear , but we know it has to do with a galaxy as big as a jewel or marble being sought after on earth , and that is crucial that the mib find it before the " bug " does . 
barry sonnenfeld , who also did the addams family films , directs this nicely . 
it's fun , it's funny , it's action-packed . 
a nice summer blockbuster as it rightfully turned out to be . 
this is one of those movies that is just " fun " and can't really be summed up any nicer or clearer . 
will smith and tommy lee jones both do great jobs and both are a blast to watch . 
definitely one of the best films of the the summer of '97 , men in black comes highly recommeded from me ! 
what if one of our cities became the target for terror ? 
what can we do ? 
what can america really do about the increasing threat of terrorism ? 
what basic human rights are we willing to sacrifice to prevent another oklahoma city disaster ? 
so far america has been the leading nation , opposing the fundamentalist terrorists around the world . 
it is the land of opportunities . 
it is the land of freedom . 
but what if it became the new target ? 
this dark fantasy has unfortunately a very strong grounding in reality . 
when a special branch of the united states military , under the command of general william devereaux ( bruce willis ) , takes prisoner suspected terrorist mastermind sheik ahmed bin talal , islamic fundamentalists across the world take notice . 
the only warning the fbi receives is a single , cryptic message : " release him . " 
then all hell breaks loose in new york . 
a bus is destroyed , killing 25 civilians . 
a broadway theater is bombed . 
hostages are taken at a school . 
as the wave of terrorist activity crests , the president must consider if the only way to save the city and break the grip of fear is to declare martial law . 
devereaux argues against that eventuality , but is nevertheless ready to lead 10 , 000 men into action on american soil . 
another person not in favor of martial law is anthony hubbard ( denzel washington ) , the fbi agent in charge of investigating the terrorist activities . 
his staff is comprised of smart , energetic , intelligent men and women very much unlike the usual group o ! 
f moronic feds we're used to seeing in movies . 
hubbard develops an uneasy alliance with cia agent elise kraft ( annette bening ) , whose department knows more about the situation than they're willing to reveal . 
but the attacks escalate . 
the fbi are helpless , chasing an invisible enemy . 
the land is under siege . 
they have lost control . . a 
terror is coming from within . . 
what's great about this film is that it is made as if holding up a mirror to life . 
it reflects reality . 
and that's why it makes such an impact . 
edward zwick has created a clever , well written and terrifying thriller that may very well be one of the best films of the season . 
the director manages to tell several stories simultaneously . 
and so his film plays on several levels , never loosing focus on its main objective . 
he is exploring the abuse of power , the distrustful relationships that exist between various segments of the u . s . government ( the army , the fbi , and the cia ) . 
he takes a look at the complexities inherent when so many secrets and lies are involved . 
the palestinian community in 1998 new york is treated exactly as japanese americans were during world war ii . 
there are concentration camps and unlawful interments , all in the name of the " greater good . " 
in the latter part of the film the land of opportunities looses its heart and soul -- freedom . 
was that what the terror ! 
ists really wanted ? 
this film has evoked protests and objections from the arab-american population in the u . s . and n . y . especially . 
but to me these protests seem unnecessary . 
zwick is careful to not step over the line and make the palestinians typical hollywood bad guys . 
the script is therefore wonderfully balanced . 
agent hubbard's best friend and loyal colleague frank haddad ( tony shalhoub ) is lebanese-american . 
and it is quite often you hear lines such as " my first boyfriend was palestinian . 
they seduce you with their suffering " or " they love this country as much as we do . " 
but no matter how you twist this matter , you won't get away from the fact that when it comes to world wide terrorism it is arab-speaking population who are in the great majority . 
more to the point , the siege demonstrates the injustice of blanket condemnation of any ethnic group by depicting the unfair treatment of all arab-americans by the u . s . military . 
and thus this film does not serve as a source for discrimination in any ! 
way . 
denzel washington is dashing as always . 
in this role he is much more determined and stronger than usual . 
anette bening is enjoyable and believable as a shadowy cia operative who prefers espionage , a network of snitches and seduction to gather information . . 
bruce willis is terrifying as the sadist , hungry for power , that never looses his connection with the audience , since his point of view is not too hard to understand . 
the film is elegantly shaped . 
the scenes are easily floating into each other and the film never seems overlong . 
zwick knows exactly how to provoke tension , horror and emotions and does it with a rarely observed professionalism . 
he tightens the intensity as the events progress . 
and when a plot twist comes , it actually is surprising . 
it is not a film drained in patriotism , like the work of roland emerich . 
nor is it a film that portrays explosions purely for entertainment values . 
it is a daring picture that has courage enough to undertake such a risky story and difficult journey . 
it has courage enough to get involved in politics . 
it questions our foreign policies , mentality and defense . 
i must admit that it ends rather disappointing , as the director turns the patriotism way up and innovation down . 
but despite of that , it is certainly an intelligent and thrilling film that provokes emotions and thoughts ; a virtue that few summer films can boast of . 
 " this is the u . s . army . 
it's a broadsword , not a scalpel . 
believe me , you do not want us in an american city " - gen . william devereaux , " the siege " 
 " desperate measures " was something i was excited about seeing back when it was originally scheduled to be released : summer '97 . 
for some reason , it was delayed until hollywood's traditional dumping ground : january . 
now that it's out , i see no real reason for that delay , as it's a simple yet highly entertaining film . 
michael keaton stars as a maniacial murderer who's bone marrow can save the life of the dying son of a san francisco police detective ( garcia ) . 
keaton agrees to the transplant , only so he can attempt escape . 
he succeeds , in a plan that of course could only work in the movies . 
the police force is now trying to kill keaton , while garcia is working against them trying to keep keaton alive in order to save his son . 
the film definately has it's flaws . 
the plot is strictly tv movie of the week fare , but the acting and direction certainly boost it far above that status . 
also , after keaton's escape , garcia's captain barks at him " how many men have to die to save your kid's life ? " 
which the film treats as such an evil and insignificant remark . 
the thing is , it's a vaild point . 
how many people have to be needlessly crippled , burned , and killed just to save this one child ? 
what's the greater good here ? 
many lives or one life ? 
if movies really had guts nowadays , i would have loved to have seen this movie come down to a final choice for garcia's character . 
place him in a situation where he knows that he has to kill keaton because keaton is about to kill someone else . 
alas , movies these days generally have no such ambition to pull the audience's strings in ways which might make the uncomfortable . 
despite a few silly moments ( and one or two really stupid ones ) , the good things about " desperate measures " outnumber the bad . 
the main highlight would be keaton's performance . 
the character could have easily been an overacting , scene chewing freak , but keaton underplays it nicely . 
he's not as menacing as he was in " pacific heights " or even as menacing as he was in " batman " ( yes kids , batman used to be a dark character ) , but you certainly get the idea that he's evil . 
even the final scene of the film , which normally i would just hate , seems strangely appropriate for this film . 
so much so that i didn't mind it in the slightest . 
and another bonus : the film takes place in san francisco , which usually means a car chase on those hills that you've seen a billion times before . 
and for a moment , it looked as though it was about to happen . 
but it doesn't , and that's creative . 
[r] 
what is a scary movie anyhow ? 
is it a movie where a person gets ripped to shreds ? 
is it where a person is being chased by some damned teenager who wants revenge ? 
possibly its some guy with a hook who wants to know what you did last summer . 
what ever happened to horror movies , where the horror was in the atmosphere , and in the characters . 
movies like " halloween " and " psycho " which revolutionized horror genre forever , but wait in 1973 came a movie based on the bestselling book by william peter blatty , entitled " the exorcist " , the movie opened to rave reviews , and scared audiences to death , now in the year 2000 " the exorcist " comes back to the big screen in a version you've never seen complete with six channel digital surround sound , and fifteen minutes of new footage never before seen as long as a new ending . 
chris mcniell is an actress living in georgetown washington with her twelve year old daughter regan . 
while working on a new film , chris still stays close to regan , but starts to wonder why her bed shakes at night , and why regan starts to have convulsions all of a sudden . 
when chris finds out that regan is possessed by a demon , she shuns at the fact of it , but considers getting a priest to help her daughter . 
father karras ( jason miller ) is the man they bring in , his mother has just died , and still in mourning he decides to help this little girl . 
christ , father karras , and their nanny sharon ( kitty winn ) have to sit and wait until a man shows up , that man is the exorcist , and that man will help this little girl . 
excrutiatingly scary , the exorcist is a classic horror film , which twenty seven years later still scares audiences half to death . 
now we get to the experience " the exorcist " the way it was meant to be seen in a director's cut which incorpates fifteen minutes of new footage cut by friedkin at the time of the release for content and time , a new ending has been added as well , and adds more of a lighter feeling to the movie , which i prefer the original darker ending more . 
the movie has also been remastered in a wonderful six channel digital sound mix , and is amazing . 
the voices are all clear , the music pours out on you and engulfs you in richness . 
as a director friedkin has been well known for other films , but his standout film is " the exorcist " nominated for several academy awards it one a few , but was somehow doubted best picture , best actress ( ellen burstyn ) and best supporting actress ( linda blair ) who at the age of i believe thirteen does a wonderful job of being a little girl , alone , possessed and unable to stop what is going on . 
ellen burstyn i think gives her best performance to date , and can be seen currently in " requiem for a dream " to which she is getting rave reviews for . 
jason miller ( jason patrik's dad ) is amazing as father karras , and his performance will be forever embedded in my mind , to me he is the character who makes the entire film float along . 
i was saddened when i saw this film with an audience of mostly younger people to see them laughing at this movie , i in no way , think that this movie is comical , yes some of the stuff regan says is funny , but they were laughing at her head spinning , and the green pea soup , come on people this is some creepy stuff ! 
anyway the re-release of the film has managed to make $40 million dollars , and is still going . 
hopefully one day they re-release it again in twenty years for more generations to come to enjoy . 
a wonderful little movie that is really interested in its characters and in its theme . 
the scene of " second best " is laid in wales . 
james ( chris cleary miles ) is a 10-year-old boy who must live in a home because his father ( keith allen ) is in prison and his mother committed suicide . 
james is a mentally unbalanced child . 
he can't forget what happened in the past , and he dreams of living a happy life with his beloved father . 
in the home he feels sadly and lonely . 
one day , a social worker ( alan cumming ) tells him of a person who wants to adopt him . 
this person is graham holt ( william hurt ) . 
graham manages a post office and shop in a village . 
he is a single and hasn't any real friends . 
